"Origin","Proverb"
"Acholi","The pot of water falls from your head when you have just reached the door of your homestead."
"Acholi","Women have no chief."
"Acholi","When a lion roars, he does not catch game."
"Acholi","The one who asks commits no sin."
"Acholi","The old pumpkin in the courtyard shall not be uprooted."
"Acholi","The growing millet does not fear the sun."
"Acholi","The first may become the last."
"Acholi","Staying near the anthill turned the antelope brown."
"Acholi","Old and new millet seeds end up in the same mill."
"Acholi","Just because you are poor does not mean you have to sleep with your mother."
"Acholi","Each rat with its own whisker."
"Acholi","Death is a scar that never heals."
"Acholi","A monkey left behind laughs at the others tail."
"Acholi","When two elephants fight, it is the grass that suffers."
"Acholi","A dog knows the places he is thrown food."
"Acholi","A crazy man can be recognised not by his words, but by his actions."
"Afghan","Only stretch your foot to the length of your blanket."
"Afghan","Storing milk in a sieve, you complain of bad luck?"
"Afghan","Some men wonder over God's values, others over the cut of a garment."
"Afghan","Smart people get the point from a single hint."
"Afghan","Saying salaam is a sign of true faith."
"Afghan","Same donkey, different saddle."
"Afghan","Salt preserves meat, but what can be done with salt if it is bad."
"Afghan","Reading Scripture in front of a donkey."
"Afghan","Patience is bitter, but it has a sweet fruit."
"Afghan","Only stretch you foot to the length of your blanket."
"Afghan","That which is obvious does not need to be explained."
"Afghan","The land of marriage has this peculiarity: That strangers are desirous of inhabiting it, while its natural inhabitants would gladly be exiled."
"Afghan","Only bread and an onion? Your life's still an open one."
"Afghan","Poor iron won't make a sharp sword."
"Afghan","The best weapon is the one that's to hand."
"Afghan","The butcher should not be trusted that has missing neighbors."
"Afghan","The cheap thing isn't without problem, the expensive without help."
"Afghan","The crow is clever, but looks at what it eats."
"Afghan","The deaf laugh twice."
"Afghan","The first day you meet, you are friends; the next day you meet, you are brothers."
"Afghan","One who runs will also fall."
"Afghan","The flower has no front or back."
"Afghan","Not cheap without reason, nor dear without value."
"Afghan","The man dying to hang himself can always find a noose."
"Afghan","The mud of one country is the medicine of another."
"Afghan","The person who is cornered will fight."
"Afghan","The right answer to a fool is silence."
"Afghan","The river won't get dirty just by the dog's bark."
"Afghan","The first day you see a friend; the next day, a brother."
"Afghan","May God not make one hand dependent on the other."
"Afghan","If you want to keep camels, have a big enough door."
"Afghan","In an ant colony, the dew is a flood."
"Afghan","In bad things be slow; in good things be quick."
"Afghan","In childhood you are palyful, In youth you are lustful In old age you are feeble, So when will you before God be worshipful?"
"Afghan","In the ditch where water has flowed, it will flow again."
"Afghan","In the shop of the sightless jeweler, the ruby and pebble are one."
"Afghan","Instead of better, it got worse."
"Afghan","It is easier to wage war with wise enemies than be at peace with foolish friends."
"Afghan","It may smell like a melon, but is it going to make you sick?"
"Afghan","It's the same donkey, but with a new saddle."
"Afghan","Learning makes some into Mullahs and some into devils."
"Afghan","Let Christians practice their own religion, and Jews practice theirs."
"Afghan","Not to be considered queer conform to the crowd."
"Afghan","Man sins... then blames it on the devil."
"Afghan","One who doesn't appreciate the apple, won't appreciate the orchard."
"Afghan","May Kabul be without gold rather without snow."
"Afghan","My drum doesn't do what I want it to."
"Afghan","No deceit, no merchant."
"Afghan","No one says his own buttermilk is sour."
"Afghan","No rose is without thorns."
"Afghan","The world is the traveler's inn."
"Afghan","Not even the five fingers of our hands are alike."
"Afghan","The rose is a friend of the thorn."
"Afghan","On earth it's hard and heaven is far away."
"Afghan","One flower does not bring spring."
"Afghan","One flower doesn't bring spring."
"Afghan","One gives by tons, but takes accounts by ounces."
"Afghan","Look after your property, and you won't accuse your neighbour of being a thief."
"Afghan","When you enjoy loving your neighbor, it ceases to be a virtue."
"Afghan","The ungrateful son is like a wart on his father's face; to leave it there is unsightly, to cut it off is painful."
"Afghan","Wealth belongs to the person who enjoys it and not to the one who keeps it."
"Afghan","What my heart desired didn't happen; what God wanted was really done."
"Afghan","What you see in yourself is what you see in the world."
"Afghan","What you sow, shall you reap."
"Afghan","What you spend, you have."
"Afghan","What's a trumpeter's job? To blow."
"Afghan","Whatever you sow, you reap."
"Afghan","When an ant says 'ocean', he's talking about a puddle."
"Afghan","When God gives, He doesn't ask whose son a person is."
"Afghan","When the hen gets fat, she stops lying."
"Afghan","When the tiger kills, the jackal profits."
"Afghan","Walls have mice and mice have ears."
"Afghan","When water goes over your head, what difference if it's one fathom or a hundred fathoms."
"Afghan","Vinegar that is free, is sweeter than honey."
"Afghan","Where the heart would go, there follows the foot."
"Afghan","While the butchers were arguing, the cow dropped dead."
"Afghan","Whosoever eats bread without first washing his hands, it is as though he had sinned with a harlot."
"Afghan","Without a green switch the ox and the donkey won't obey."
"Afghan","Without investigating the water, don't take off your shoes."
"Afghan","You can beat anyone if you have a golden slipper."
"Afghan","You can use salt to prevent meat from rotting, but what will you use to prevent salt from rotting?"
"Afghan","You can't clap with one hand."
"Afghan","You can't flee your lot nor share it with another."
"Afghan","You stored your milk in a straining metal... and now you are complaining about bad luck?"
"Afghan","You talk sweet like the bulbul bird."
"Afghan","Your aspirations are in heaven, but your brains are in your feet."
"Afghan","When the wine is free even the judge drinks it."
"Afghan","There is a path to the top of highest mountain."
"Afghan","The skin fits closer than the shirt."
"Afghan","The sun cannot be hidden by two fingers."
"Afghan","The tree will not sway without a trace of wind."
"Afghan","The ungrateful son is a wart on his father's face; to leave it is a blemish, to cut it off is pain."
"Afghan","If you sit with us, you will get like us; if you sit beside a cooking pot, you will get black."
"Afghan","The wood is burnt, but the ashes are a nuisance."
"Afghan","The night may be dark, but the apples have been counted."
"Afghan","The world lives on hope."
"Afghan","The world will not find rest by just saying ""peace."""
"Afghan","The yellow dog is brother to the wolf."
"Afghan","There are no greater prudes than those women who have their own dirty secrets to hide."
"Afghan","There are twenty-five uncaught sparrows for a penny."
"Afghan","Walls have mice, mice [have] ears."
"Afghan","There is a path to the top of even the highest mountain."
"Afghan","The seeker is the finder."
"Afghan","There is a way from heart to heart."
"Afghan","They asked the fox, ""Who is your witness?"" He said, ""My tail."""
"Afghan","Though God is almighty, he doesn't send rain from a clear sky."
"Afghan","To speak ill of anyone is to speak ill of yourself."
"Afghan","Too many butchers spoil the cow."
"Afghan","Try out your shoes on your feet -- gauge people against their misfortune."
"Afghan","Two are better than one, and three than two."
"Afghan","Two watermelons can't be grabbed in one hand."
"Afghan","Two watermelons can't be held in one hand."
"Afghan","Under his bowl there is a little bowl."
"Afghan","Unfortunates learn from their own mistakes, and the lucky ones learn from other's mistakes."
"Afghan","Unless God does it, what can a doctor do?"
"Afghan","There is a doorway that connects two hearts."
"Afghan","As long as there is no wind, the tree won't blow."
"Afghan","Debt severs love."
"Afghan","A tree doesn't move unless there is wind."
"Afghan","A wanton eye is the messenger of a lusting heart."
"Afghan","A warm fire is better than any delicious food."
"Afghan","A warm fire is better than delicious cooked rice."
"Afghan","A wise enemy is better than a foolish friend."
"Afghan","A wolf's pup will grow into a wolf even though it be raised among men."
"Afghan","A wound will heal. Talk won't."
"Afghan","After every darkness is light."
"Afghan","Allah has said, ""Start moving so that I may start blessing."""
"Afghan","An intelligent enemy rather than a foolish friend."
"Afghan","An old friend is like a saddled horse."
"Afghan","A tilted load won't reach its destination."
"Afghan","As long as there are fools in the world, no one will be penniless."
"Afghan","A sandal is not a shoe; a cap is not a turban."
"Afghan","As the sun's shadow shifts, so there is no permanence on earth."
"Afghan","Ask the truth from a child."
"Afghan","Be patient with your enemies and forgiving of your friends."
"Afghan","Being clean is the half of faith."
"Afghan","between brother and brother, accounts should be square."
"Afghan","Blood cannot be washed out with blood."
"Afghan","Blood is thick than water."
"Afghan","Blood will have blood."
"Afghan","Blood will tell."
"Afghan","Bloom where you are planted."
"Afghan","Cats don't catch mice to please God."
"Afghan","Community is not made by force."
"Afghan","As long as the beard exists, the world clenches its fists. As long as the pakul hat exists, the world stutters in fits."
"Afghan","A liar is forgetful."
"Afghan","The potter drinks water from a broken jug."
"Afghan","If you don't recognize God, at least know Him by His power."
"Afghan","A bad wound heals, but a bad word doesn't."
"Afghan","A bird only flies as high as his wings take him."
"Afghan","A broken hand can work but a broken heart can't."
"Afghan","A cheap thing doesn't lack defect, nor an expensive thing quality."
"Afghan","A donkey has two friends: his two hind legs."
"Afghan","A drunken donkey will not remember the monkeys bite."
"Afghan","A fish with teeth tastes the same as fish without."
"Afghan","A fox is in trouble because of his own pelt."
"Afghan","A frog hopped onto a wall and cried, 'I can see Kashmir!'"
"Afghan","A good year is determined by its spring."
"Afghan","A tree does not move unless there is wind."
"Afghan","A leopard's spots: or, what is bred in the babe will come out in the flesh."
"Afghan","A stick for the nobody, a hint for the nobleman."
"Afghan","A lion at home, and a fox abroad."
"Afghan","A little water is a sea to an ant."
"Afghan","A mother and daughter fought, and fool thought they meant it."
"Afghan","A mother won't give milk to her child until he cries."
"Afghan","A mountain doesn't reach out to mountain, a man is reaching out to a man."
"Afghan","A new servant can catch a running deer."
"Afghan","A palm tree growing in the shade will not bear ripe fruit."
"Afghan","A porcupine speaking to its baby says, ""O my child of velvet."""
"Afghan","A real friend is one who takes the hand of his friend in times of distress and helplessness."
"Afghan","A real friend takes the hand of his friend in overwhelming worry and fire."
"Afghan","A river is made drop by drop."
"Afghan","A river is not cntaminated by having a dog drink from it."
"Afghan","A lame crab walks straight."
"Afghan","He who goes to the blacksmith's shop comes home with scorched clothes."
"Afghan","Glory is fitting to God alone."
"Afghan","Go out from your village: don't let your village go out form you."
"Afghan","God has said, ""Start moving so that I may start blessing."""
"Afghan","God isn't in need of our prayers."
"Afghan","God said, ""Eat and drink,"" but He didn't say, ""Gorge to the full."""
"Afghan","Good perfume is known by its scent rather than by the perfumer's advertisement."
"Afghan","Grumbling and carping are the muscles of the weak."
"Afghan","Hasty work doesn't succeed."
"Afghan","Having been bitten by a snake, he's afraid of a rope."
"Afghan","He appreciates prosperity who is caught in calamity."
"Afghan","He hasn't time even to scratch his head."
"Afghan","He ran out from under a leaking roof and sat in the rain."
"Afghan","Give graciously -- even an onion."
"Afghan","He saved his ears, but lost his head."
"Afghan","He has soaked a hundred heads, but hasn't shaved one."
"Afghan","Hearing is never as good as seeing."
"Afghan","Heaven is dark and yet out of it streams clear water."
"Afghan","Heed the troubadour, burn the dinner."
"Afghan","However tall the mountain is, there's a road to the top of it."
"Afghan","I have never seen anyone go astray who followed along the right way."
"Afghan","I'm talking to the door, but I want the walls to hear me."
"Afghan","If a forest catches fire, both the dry and the wet will burn up."
"Afghan","If the master gnaws bones, what will he give the dog?"
"Afghan","Don't be a thief and won't fear the king."
"Afghan","A river is not contaminated by having a dog drink from it."
"Afghan","If there is only bread and onions, still have a happy face."
"Afghan","If you deal in camels, make the doors high."
"Afghan","He reckons his importance by the elephant-load."
"Afghan","Even the largest army is nothing without a good general."
"Afghan","Don't be a thief and you won't fear the king."
"Afghan","He is riding the donkey, but has lost the donkey."
"Afghan","Give every man his due."
"Afghan","Don't show me the palm-tree, show me the dates."
"Afghan","Don't sprinkle salt on my wound."
"Afghan","Don't stop a donkey that isn't yours."
"Afghan","Don't use your teeth when you can untie the knot with your fingers."
"Afghan","Donated vinegar is sweeter than honey."
"Afghan","Even if a knife is made of gold, a person won't stab his own heart with it."
"Afghan","Even the Judge was drunk when the wine was free."
"Afghan","Don't show me the palm tree, show me the dates."
"Afghan","Every anguish passes except the anguish of hunger."
"Afghan","Every dog is a lion at home."
"Afghan","Every man thinks his own thoughts are best."
"Afghan","First food, then religion."
"Afghan","Give even an onion graciously."
"Afghan","Even if a knife is made of silver, a person won't stab his own heart with it."
"Afghan","Every rock strikes the feet of the poor."
"Afghan","Flourish like a flower, but may your life be longer."
"Afghan","Five fingers are brothers but are not equals."
"Afghan","Forget the past, but look out in the future."
"Afghan","Fire, fire's better than rice."
"Afghan","Fear the worse."
"Afghan","Fear the person who doesn't fear God."
"Afghan","Everyone thinks his own thoughts are best."
"Afghan","Every tree feels the force of the wind."
"Afghan","Five of them would run from the bang of one empty gun."
"Afghan","The tree will not sway without a trace of wind."
"Afghan","If you want to keep camels, have a big enough door."
"Afghan","In an ant colony dew is a flood."
"Afghan","It's the same donkey, but with a new saddle."
"Afghan","No one says his own buttermilk is sour."
"Afghan","Only stretch your foot to the length of your blanket."
"Afghan","Storing milk in a sieve, you complain of bad luck?"
"Afghan","The mud of one country is the medicine of another."
"Afghan","If you deal in camels, make the doors high."
"Afghan","The seeker is the finder."
"Afghan","Under his bowl there is a little bowl."
"Afghan","The wood is burnt, but the ashes are a nuisance."
"Afghan","There are twenty-five uncaught sparrows for a penny."
"Afghan","Two watermelons can't be held in one hand."
"Afghan","What you spend, you have."
"Afghan","A lame crab walks straight."
"Afghan","The right answer to a fool is silence."
"Afghan","A river is not contaminated by having a dog drink from it."
"Afghan","When the tiger kills, the jackal profits."
"Afghan","If a forest catches fire, both the dry and the wet will burn up."
"Afghan","A little water is a sea to an ant."
"Afghan","A porcupine speaking to its baby says, ""O my child of velvet."""
"Afghan","Allah has said, ""Start moving so that I may start blessing."""
"Afghan","Blood cannot be washed out with blood."
"Afghan","Blood is thick than water."
"Afghan","Blood will have blood."
"Afghan","Blood will tell."
"Afghan","Five of them would run from the bang of one empty gun."
"Afghan","Give every man his due."
"Afghan","Bloom where you are planted."
"Afghan","Having been bitten by a snake, he's afraid of a rope."
"Afghan","Give even an onion graciously."
"Afghan","Five fingers are brothers but not equals."
"Afghan","Don't show me the palm tree, show me the dates."
"Afghan","Don't be a thief and you won't fear the king."
"Afghan","Debt severs love."
"African","The buffalo does not wander from the marsh where it was born."
"African","The calf is not afraid of the mother's horns."
"African","The buffalo's shit is dry on top when inside its wet."
"African","The bubbling flames are not fire."
"African","The bravery of a lion doesn't protect it from the spear of a hunter."
"African","The buried do not give birth."
"African","The buttocks are like a married couple though there is constant friction between them; they will still love and live together."
"African","The camel and his driver -- each has his own plan."
"African","The cheapest way to win a person is by a smile."
"African","The canary that dances along the bush path must have its drummer in the nearby bush."
"African","The cheapest way to improve your looks is to wear a smile."
"African","The brave man is not he who doesn't feel afraid, but he who conquers that fear."
"African","The ceiling won't stay when the room is no longer there."
"African","The cat may look like a lion, but that does not make it a lion."
"African","The cat and the mouse can't be neighbors for long."
"African","The best way to catch a bird is not by scaring it away."
"African","The best dancer comes from the sitting lounge."
"African","The best mirror of all is an old friend."
"African","The drum is the favourite instrument of the spirits."
"African","The chicken is never declared in the court of hawks."
"African","The best morsels are never given to a beggar."
"African","The bee that carries honey in its mouth carries a sting in its tail."
"African","The best of mankind is a farmer; the best food is fruit."
"African","The beauty of a woman becomes useless if there is no one to admire it."
"African","The blind man would like to show the way to others."
"African","The best way to eat the elephant standing in your path is to cut it up into little pieces."
"African","The bird is up in the sky but its eyes are on the ground."
"African","The bird, which flaps its wings too much, will drop its feathers."
"African","The bitter heart eats its owner."
"African","The black cow doesn't give black milk."
"African","The blight ness of the moon can only be experienced in total darkness."
"African","The best preparation for tomorrow is to make sure today's work is superbly done."
"African","The dog never minds not to laugh."
"African","The downfall of a man is not the end of his life."
"African","The dead are among us."
"African","The dead are not seen in the company of the living."
"African","The dead man doesn't know the value of his coffin."
"African","The death of a man doesn't make his wives men."
"African","The day does not return."
"African","The dog never forgets its owner."
"African","The darkest hour is before dawn."
"African","The downfall of man begins with pride."
"African","The earth is a beehive, we all enter by the same door."
"African","The axe forgets; the tree remembers."
"African","She who gives birth to triplets cannot ask for a third breast."
"African","The egg shows the hen where to hatch."
"African","The earth is a beehive; we all enter by the same door but live in different cells."
"African","The difference between genius and stupidity is that genius has its limits."
"African","The corpse of a bird does not decompose in flight, but on the ground."
"African","The chicken that sits along the road to eat shall never enjoy a good meal."
"African","The child hates the one who gives him all he wants."
"African","The cock belongs to one household, but when it crows it is heard in the whole village."
"African","The cock that loses its pace time of cockadoodle should be dressed otherwise it will misguide you."
"African","The cockroach cannot be innocent in a court where the hen is judge."
"African","The day the monkey is destined to die, all the trees get slippery."
"African","The coffin seller wants a long life for himself and a short life for others."
"African","The chicken that digs for food will not sleep hungry."
"African","The country rooster dows not crow in the town."
"African","The cow engenders the man."
"African","The cow with no tail can only depend on goats to rid himself of flies."
"African","The cricket cries, the year changes."
"African","The cultivator is alone, but those who eat are many."
"African","The danger that threatens the hunting dog, threatens the hunter too."
"African","The cocks that cockadoodle were once eggs."
"African","Sometimes the face can tell what the lips can't say."
"African","Success in life largely depends on how you handle your failures."
"African","Some birds are not meant to be caged there feathers are to blight and there meant to fly."
"African","Someone who doesn't listen to others deserves not to be listened too."
"African","Someone who wants everything looses everything."
"African","Something that doesn't talk how does it refuse."
"African","Society is like a pot it can't carry water when its broken."
"African","Sometimes a lie is kinder than a truth."
"African","Snake at your feet - a stick at your hand !"
"African","Sometimes the spirits speaks for you and sometimes the spirits makes you speak."
"African","Sometimes you need to die in order to live again."
"African","Sorrow is like a precious treasure, shown only to friends."
"African","Sorrow may sadden your face but it sharpens your understanding."
"African","Stronger than an army is a quotation whose time has come."
"African","Silence brings wisdom of the ancestors."
"African","Something you think that is nice when you get into contact with it, it seizes to be nice."
"African","Silence cannot be misquoted."
"African","The power of a leopard resides in its claws."
"African","The eggshell cannot be a mother of its resultant offspring."
"African","Shall we kill a snake and carry it in our hand when we have a bag for putting long things in?"
"African","Several repeated visits to the mud pit enable the wasp to build its house."
"African","Shame to the house where the hen crows and the cock is silent."
"African","Soldiers don't cry."
"African","She who grinds millet should have wisdom about rainy clouds and winds."
"African","Success is a ladder which cannot be climbed with hands in your pocket."
"African","Silence gives rise to peace and with peace comes security."
"African","Slashing isn't digging nor is digging called sowing."
"African","Sleep is the cousin of death."
"African","Small matters breed important ones."
"African","Smile... heaven is watching."
"African","Smooth seas do not make skillful sailors."
"African","She is beautiful; she has love, understands; she respects herself and others; everyone likes, loves and honours her; she is a goddess."
"African","The animal hide can best be straightened and smoothened when still fresh."
"African","Students are the only consumers who do not want what they pay for."
"African","That which is deadly may have a sweet scent."
"African","That which is exceptionally good is a forerunner of something bad."
"African","That you don't give birth too, you let him or her carry a stone on the head."
"African","That you eat in the morning passes you through the day."
"African","That which got bent while growing when you straighten it, it breaks."
"African","The ancestors may annoy you but don't make a mistake of annoying them back, they may annoy you forever."
"African","That what comes to stay has come it cannot return."
"African","The animal that escapes the hunter's spear is only allowed to go."
"African","The ant that destroys a kola nut lives inside it."
"African","The antics of a market buffoon provide laughter, but nobody prays that his child becomes the market buffoon."
"African","The arrow that missed the head of its target will never hit the tail."
"African","The attacks of a wild beast cannot be averted with only bare hands."
"African","The ax forgets but the cut log does not."
"African","The always-hurrying person eats goat, but the one who takes his time eats beef."
"African","Teaching a monkey to eat with a fork and knife will never make it a man."
"African","Sudden frightening occurrence knows no brave person."
"African","Sunshine always follows a dark night."
"African","Sweet and sour walk hand in hand."
"African","Sweetness attracts more flies than sourness."
"African","Take what you need and leave our land the way you found it."
"African","That which is about to die doesn't hear the drum beating."
"African","Talking with one another is loving one another."
"African","The axe forgets. The tree remembers."
"African","Tears cannot bring you joy but joy can bring you tears."
"African","Tears never flow in the house of a coward."
"African","Tears will not stop flowing for someone who is crying for himself."
"African","Teenagers act like babies if they are not treated like adults."
"African","Teeth are all friends among each other."
"African","Tell your friend a lie, if he keeps it secret, then tell him the truth."
"African","Talking is cheap until you hire a lawyer to do it for you."
"African","The mouth does not eat if the feet do not walk and the hands work."
"African","The mouth which eats does not talk."
"African","The moon lightens well but leaves certain areas in the dark."
"African","The moon moves slowly, but it crosses the town."
"African","The more intimate the friendship the deadlier the enmity."
"African","The more mistakes you make the fewer mistakes there left to make."
"African","The monkey and gorilla may claim kinship, but the monkey is a monkey and the gorilla is a gorilla."
"African","The mouse says: I dig a hole without a hoe; the snake says: climb a tree without arms."
"African","The miserly man is like a fattened ox: he will give of his fat only when he has been deprived of his life."
"African","The mouth does not forget what it tasted only one time."
"African","The mouth does not know limitations of its master."
"African","The mouth is stupid after eating it forgets who gave it the food."
"African","The mouth of an elderly man is without teeth, but never without words of wisdom."
"African","The mouth that eats should not talk, for it risks swallowing a fly."
"African","The land is never devoid of counselors."
"African","The most horrible sight on earth cannot put out the eye."
"African","The lion does not turn around when a small dog barks."
"African","The persons we eat with are the ones to kills us."
"African","The laughter of a child is the light of a house."
"African","The length of the rope determines the movement of the goat."
"African","The leopard does not sleep on a dry branch."
"African","The leopard that covers its black spots with hamaton dust solution will truly be exposed when the rain season comes."
"African","The monkey is a good boxer, but his hands are short."
"African","The light of a thousand stars doesn't equal the light of the moon."
"African","The nail that sticks out is the one that gets hammered down."
"African","The lion may be king of the jungle but he knows, he shouldn't stand in the way of the elephant."
"African","The lizard that jumped from the high iroko tree to the ground said he would praise himself if no one else did."
"African","The madman, who throws a stone into a crowded market, forgets that his own mother could be hit by his madness."
"African","The man who counts the bits of food he swallows is never satisfied."
"African","The man, who eats alone, dies alone."
"African","The mind of a fool is like a broken pot it will hold no wisdom."
"African","The life of a groundnut lies between two shells."
"African","The person you put on your back is one who bites you."
"African","The mouth that speaks a lot is liable to hunt a friend."
"African","The partridge loves peas, but not those that go into the pot with it."
"African","The path is made by walking."
"African","The path leads towards loved ones not thorns."
"African","The person who guards himself will not be destroyed."
"African","The opinion of the intelligent is better than the certainty of the ignorant."
"African","The person you know during daytime should also be recognisable during night time."
"African","The one you minimise could be eating meat everyday."
"African","Send a boy where he wants to go and you see his best pace."
"African","The plant God favors will grow even without rain."
"African","No matter how many house chores you complete, there are always more to be done."
"African","The predator lands on an unknown tree."
"African","The problem with the palace attendant isn't how to steal the king's drums but where to play them from."
"African","The quarrel of the sheep doesn't concern the goats."
"African","The person who is coming from the bowels of the earth doesn't despise even the smallest amount of sunshine."
"African","The one who is not wrestling says throw him down and we go."
"African","The naked truth is always better than the best-dressed lie."
"African","The new moon cannot come until the other has gone."
"African","The noise produced by frogs in the well can't stop an elephant from drinking."
"African","The okra plant doesn't grow taller than its planter."
"African","The old lady feels uneasy when dry bones are mentioned in a proverb."
"African","The palm-wine we drink, some people can drink it and remain wise; others lose all their senses."
"African","The one who hasn't strength to pound yams pretends to drive away flies from the yams."
"African","The kola nut stays longer in the mouths of those who value it."
"African","The one who knows the way to the cemetery carries the tail end of the coffin."
"African","The one who shows off himself in every place will one day search for Where to hide."
"African","The one who sleeps in his room knows where it is leaking."
"African","The one who went to the in-laws got trapped in a thorn tree."
"African","The one who wrestles with a big man will soon wear himself out."
"African","The one whose foot you heal kicks you with it."
"African","The one chased away with a stick comes back and the one chassed away with reason doesn't come back."
"African","The fruits of a tree on the roadside are never eaten ripe."
"African","The grave only calls those death loves."
"African","The fool sucks wisdom, as he porter sups, And cobblers grow fine speakers in their cups."
"African","The forest not only hides man's enemies but its full of man's medicine, healing power and food."
"African","The fox must be chased away first after that the hen might be warned against wandering into the bush."
"African","The friends of our friends are our friends."
"African","The fool is thirsty in the midst of water."
"African","The frowning face of a goat doesn't prevent it being taken to market."
"African","The fly had life even before the dog had its wounds."
"African","The fuel in the lamp consumes itself but lights others."
"African","The ghosts gossip among each other."
"African","The goat eats where it's tethered."
"African","The gourd that never leaves the boozing centre attains cracks."
"African","The gourd's neck cannot be straightened in it's old age, it can only be broken."
"African","The last partridge will take the most arrows."
"African","The frog likes water but not when it's boiling."
"African","The eye looking at the sun will not need an adviser before it blinks."
"African","The elephant never gets tired of carrying its tusks."
"African","The end of an ox is beef, and the end of a lie is grief."
"African","The evil everyone does lives after him or her."
"African","The eye cannot bear loads yet it can tell heavy objects from light ones."
"African","The eye envies, not the ear."
"African","The fool speaks, the wise man listens."
"African","The eye is not harmed by sleep."
"African","The great tree chooses where to grow and we find it there, so it is with the greatness in men."
"African","The eye of a snake is big but no one can put is finger on it."
"African","The eyes that beheld the chief don't fear for a court official."
"African","The eyes that have seen the ocean cannot be satisfied by a mere lagoon."
"African","The fall of a dead leaf is a warning to the green ones."
"African","The fish starts to rot from the head."
"African","The fish that dirties the water will forever swim in dirty water."
"African","The eye is a coward."
"African","The hyena chasing two gazelles at the same will go to bed hungry."
"African","The grass may be greener on the other side, but it is just as difficult to cut."
"African","The hottest music and dance always comes from home."
"African","The house of the heart is never full."
"African","The house rat who goes swimming with his friend the lizard will die from cold."
"African","The house roof fights the rain, but the person who is sheltered ignores it."
"African","The horns cannot be too heavy for the cow that bears them."
"African","The hunter who is tracking an elephant does not stop to throw stones at birds."
"African","The homeowner doesn't eat a little."
"African","The hyena sleeps with the sheep."
"African","The insect that eats the leaf is under the leaf."
"African","The key that opens is also the key that locks."
"African","The key that unlocks is also the key that locks. Honor a child, and he will honor you."
"African","The kite in the skies doesn't feed on clouds."
"African","The knife that has been lent, never comes back alone."
"African","The hunter in pursuit of an elephant does not stop to throw stones at birds."
"African","The happy man rises with the sun."
"African","The greatest crime in a desert is to find water and keep silent about it."
"African","The greatest of all faults is to be conscious of none."
"African","The greatest truth is the simplest one."
"African","The greatness of man's male organ don't call it an hydro cell."
"African","The grindstones can neither be used as a stool nor a headrest."
"African","The horse never refuses a homeward gallop."
"African","The hand that tied the lion knows best how to untie it."
"African","The elephant dies, but his tusks remain."
"African","The heart doesn't wear rags."
"African","The heart of man and the bottom of the sea are unfathomable."
"African","The heart of the wise man lies quiet like limpid water."
"African","The hen doesn't have breasts, but she can still feed her chicks."
"African","The hen knows that dawn has arrived but it leaves the duty of crowing to the cock."
"African","The hollow of the ear is never full."
"African","The hand assists the foot, but the foot cannot do the same."
"African","Music speaks louder than words."
"African","Never lose heart because whatever is hot must in the end turn cold."
"African","Monkeys don't advise there young ones to be careful on trees they just remind them of the distance to the ground."
"African","Morning is the start of a day's work."
"African","Move like a chameleon, look in front, and watch behind."
"African","Move your neck according to the music."
"African","Money is like the waters of a sailing river it flows away."
"African","Music and women should not be dated."
"African","Money can even corrupt the virtuous."
"African","Negotiate with your enemy whilst you are a strong and formidable force, and he will always fear and respect you, but negotiate at the brink of defeat, and he will trample you down."
"African","Never blame a messenger."
"African","Never dump your old pot just because you have bought a new one."
"African","Never insult your enemy while you're laying down unless there is someone else standing by."
"African","Never let a friend lie in your sheep farm he might get hungry."
"African","Maize grows well where people have no teeth."
"African","Moving water makes stagnant water move."
"African","Marriage is a snake to slip into your handbag."
"African","No matter how long the night is, the morning is sure to come."
"African","Man is like palm-wine: when young, sweet but without strength; in old age, strong but harsh."
"African","Man is like palm-wine: when young, sweet but without strength; in old age, strong but harsh."
"African","Man's goodness is a flame that can be hidden but never extinguished."
"African","Man's greatest battles are the ones he fights within himself."
"African","Money is sharper than a sword."
"African","Many rats never drill holes."
"African","Never mock a fowl with raffled feathers it might have won a fight."
"African","Men die but words live on."
"African","Men fall only in order to rise."
"African","Migration is a sign of protect."
"African","Milestone cornmeal unites families."
"African","Milk and honey have different colours, but they share the same house peacefully."
"African","Minds are like parachutes; they only function when they are open."
"African","Many hens may be in love with one cock, but none will be jealous of the other."
"African","No matter how huge a hook may be it cannot catch fish in a river."
"African","Never let a handshake pass the elbow."
"African","No matter how fast a man can run, he can never chase his shadow and catch it."
"African","No matter how full the river, it still wants to grow."
"African","No matter how good a hunting dog is it cannot kill a leopard."
"African","No matter how high the bird flies, a hunter sets is trap on the ground."
"African","No matter how far you are from your house, you will keep going until you get home."
"African","No matter how hot your anger may be it cannot cook."
"African","No matter how close the ear is to the eye they can't see each other."
"African","No matter how hungry the vulture, it will never eat grass."
"African","No matter how kind a man might be he cannot accept to share his wife."
"African","No matter how long a bird lives in a cage, it will always want to escape."
"African","No matter how long a fallen tree stays in the river it can never be a crocodile."
"African","No matter how long a stick may stay in a river, it will never change into fish."
"African","No matter how much milk a cow has, you cannot milk butter from it."
"African","No matter how high the vulture may choose to soar, the eagle will remain king of the sky."
"African","No man can outwit the ancestors."
"African","Never travel with a friend who disserts you at the notice of danger."
"African","Never underestimate the power of stupid people in large groups."
"African","News does not sleep on the way."
"African","Nicknames are the hardest stones the devil can throw at a man."
"African","No chicken will fall into the fire a second time."
"African","No matter how far you have walked in the wrong direction certainly you have to turn back and take the right direction."
"African","No goal is unachievable."
"African","Maize cannot get justice in a chicken's court."
"African","No man is a hero to his debtors."
"African","No matter how angry a rat may be it will be eaten by a cat."
"African","No matter how beautiful and well crafted a coffin might look, it will not make anyone wish for death."
"African","No matter how big a child is, he cannot deny that he was once carried on the back of a woman."
"African","No matter how big the butterfly may be, it cannot be called a bat."
"African","No matter how black a cow is the milk is always white."
"African","No cloth can be better than your skin."
"African","Kindness is a language, which the blind can see and the deaf can hear."
"African","Lack of knowledge is darker than night."
"African","It's unworthy to dig a new pit to fill up an old one."
"African","It's useless to tell a river to stop running; the best thing is to learn how to swim in the direction it's flowing."
"African","It's wise to do what you're born to do."
"African","Its better to stumble with your feet than to stumble with your mouth."
"African","It's those ugly caterpillars that turn into beautiful butterflies after seasons."
"African","Keep your friends close but remember to keep your enemies closer."
"African","It's the young trees that make up the forest."
"African","Kings beget kings."
"African","Kinship is like tough gourds when they knock each other they never break."
"African","Knowledge is better than wealth, you have to look after wealth, but knowledge looks after you."
"African","Knowledge is like a garden, if you don't cultivate it you cannot harvest it."
"African","Knowledge is not the main thing, but deeds."
"African","Man invented language to satisfy is deep need to complain."
"African","Judge not your beauty by the number of people who look at you, but rather by the number of people who smile at you."
"African","It's only a dead man who has everybody on his side."
"African","It's better to know yourself that someone to tell you who you're."
"African","It's better to light a candle than curse the darkness."
"African","It's better to live with a dumb person than a liar."
"African","It's evil to give meat to those who do not eat meat."
"African","It's much easier to fall in love than to stay in love."
"African","It's too late to fatten a cow on the market day."
"African","It's not the monkey on top that make a tree fall but it's the work and effort of numerous small insects and ants."
"African","Language is not plain."
"African","It's only the ant that hears the whispers of the sand."
"African","It's only when you aim at one spot that your urine foams."
"African","It's out of ignorance that a goat will attend a leopard's party."
"African","It's the big birds that teach the young ones to flight."
"African","It's the orator's wit to make a story appear old."
"African","It's the tortoise's shell, ugly and hard that protects its life long journey on earth."
"African","It's not the aroma of the soup that tells you whether it's sweet or not, but it's the tongue's taste."
"African","Love is in blood not in talking."
"African","Knowledge without wisdom is like water without sand."
"African","Little by little, a little becomes a lot."
"African","Live patiently in the world; know that those who hate you are more numerous than those who love you."
"African","Living near a lake doesn't mean you eat fish whenever you need."
"African","Looking at a king's mouth one would never think he sucked his mother's breast."
"African","Listening is the most difficult skill to learn and the most important to have."
"African","Love is a painkiller."
"African","Like a person, even the moon grows and vanishes in a transitional process."
"African","Love is like a baby: it needs to be treated tenderly."
"African","Love is like a baby: it needs to be treated tenderly."
"African","Love is like a baby; it needs to be treated tenderly."
"African","Love is like cough you can't hold it back."
"African","Love never gets lost it's only kept."
"African","Lower your head modestly while passing, and you will harvest bananas."
"African","Love begets love."
"African","Life is like shopping in a market; when you finish, you go home."
"African","Laughter does wonders for the heart."
"African","Let a wrong-doing repeat itself at least three times: the first may be an accident, the second a mistake, but the third is likely to be intentional."
"African","Let us be glad to those who make us happy for their gods who make our souls happy."
"African","Life is a teacher."
"African","Life is like a boat you move on when you paddle and stay in the same place if not."
"African","Little by little grow the bananas."
"African","Life is like riding a bicycle; you don't fall off unless you stop pedalling."
"African","No matter how long the night is, the morning is sure to come."
"African","Life is lived forwards, but understood backwards."
"African","Life is the beginning of death."
"African","Life is vanity."
"African","Life is what you make it."
"African","Life is your ability to breath out every time you breathe in."
"African","Life without battle is life without victory."
"African","Life is like a mirror if you fawn it, it fawns back and if you smile, it smiles."
"African","Optimism is a mania for saying all is well when one is in hell."
"African","People think that the poor are not as wise as the rich, for if a man be wise, why is he poor?"
"African","Only the owner can free his home from mice."
"African","Only the person who wears the shoe feels it when it pitches."
"African","Only those who do nothing never make a mistake."
"African","Only what you have eaten is yours; other things may not be."
"African","Only a well-taught groom deserves a bride."
"African","Open your ears to the ancestors and you will understand the language of spirits."
"African","Only a patient man can milk a lioness."
"African","Ours is ours, but mine is mine."
"African","Pain is inevitable suffering is optional."
"African","Patience over wins a lot of ill."
"African","Peace is costly but it is worth the expense."
"African","People are like chameleons; circumstances make them change their colour."
"African","One only realises the importance of a well when the water dries up."
"African","Only when a tree has grown can you tie your cow to it."
"African","One with more firewood than you, has more ash than you."
"African","No matter how long and winding the road might be, it will always lead you to your destination."
"African","One rind is enough to tie a thousand pieces of wood."
"African","One volunteer is better than ten forced men."
"African","One who carries a pot of honey doesn't envy the sugarcane farmer."
"African","One who causes others misfortune also teaches them wisdom."
"African","Only birds with long beaks can drink from deep pots."
"African","One who eats alone cannot discuss the taste of the food with others."
"African","People who drink to drown their sorrows, should be told that sorrow knows how to swim."
"African","One's name remains above the grave."
"African","Only a fool believes that the clouds obscure the splendour of the moon. It has shined behind them for eternity."
"African","Only a fool tests the depth of the water with both feet."
"African","Only a fool will use both his legs to test how deep a spring is."
"African","Only a goat that is tired of life invites a lion to dinner."
"African","Only a knife can best tell a child when to leave it."
"African","One who does what he says is not a coward."
"African","Roots do not know what a leaf has in mind."
"African","People should not talk while they are eating or pepper may go down the wrong way."
"African","Removing a peace of yam from the pot of yam doesn't stop the rest from cooking."
"African","Repetition is the mother of knowledge."
"African","Respect yourself, and you will get it back."
"African","Restless feet may walk into a snake pit."
"African","Remember the wisdom of your ancestors in order to become wise."
"African","Roaring lions kill no prey."
"African","Regrets are much like grandchildren; they come much later."
"African","Running water can never jump over a hole in the ground."
"African","Sanity is the playground for the unimaginative."
"African","Say no from the start; you will have rest."
"African","Scandal is like an egg; when it is hatched it has wings."
"African","Search for a friend with no faults and you will remain with no friends."
"African","Seeing is better than hearing."
"African","Return to old watering holes for more than water; friends and dreams are there to meet you."
"African","Problems come in threes."
"African","Poverty is slavery."
"African","Poverty without debt is real wealth."
"African","Practice with the left hand while the right is still there."
"African","Praise of the moon the god."
"African","Pray for good harvest, but keep on hoeing."
"African","Remember your ancestors because you're not better than them."
"African","Pretend you are dead and you will see who really loves you."
"African","One must talk little and listen much."
"African","Proverbs are the daughters of experience."
"African","Quarrels end, but words once spoken never die."
"African","Quiet people are like still water their deep."
"African","Rain beats a leopard's skin, but it does not wash out the spots."
"African","Rain does not fall on one roof alone."
"African","Rain wets the leopard's spots, but it doesn't wash them off."
"African","Pregnancy could not be covered with the hand."
"African","No one is without knowledge except he who asks no questions."
"African","No problem is settled until it is settled right."
"African","No matter how tall a camel is, it will never get taller than the hair on its back."
"African","No matter how tall a tree might grow it will always shed its leaves on the ground."
"African","No matter how tight a monkey's trousers are, there is always space for his tail."
"African","No matter how tough the current of a river may be it is the calabash that triumphal over the river."
"African","No matter how short a man is, he will always see the sky."
"African","No matter how wise you are, you cannot trace footsteps in water."
"African","No matter how sharp your teeth are, you can't bite water."
"African","No one knows if a bird in flight has an egg in its stomach."
"African","No one knows the story of tomorrow's dawn."
"African","No one tests the depth of a river with both feet."
"African","No one truly knows a nation until one has been inside its jails."
"African","No pestle can be bigger than its mortar."
"African","One piece of green wood is enough to stop the others from burning."
"African","No matter how well tamed a lion, it will one day go back to the bush."
"African","No matter how often a man quarrels with his wife he doesn't do so during the hours lending to bedtime."
"African","No matter how long the night, the day is sure to come."
"African","No matter how long the winter, spring is sure to follow."
"African","No matter how many house chores you complete, there are always more to be done."
"African","Thorns themselves will not harm you -- you hurt yourself on the thorns."
"African","No matter how much milk a cow has, you cannot milk butter from it."
"African","No matter how small a pin can be a hen cannot swallow it."
"African","No matter how much you feed a lizard it cannot become a crocodile."
"African","No sin goes unpunished."
"African","No matter how old you may be the future will always be ahead of you."
"African","No matter how painful the loss, the bereaved won't be buried with the corpse."
"African","No matter how poor a village, there is always one rich man."
"African","No matter how powerful a man, he cannot make the rains fall on his farm alone."
"African","No matter how rich a man may be he cannot sleep on two beds at ago."
"African","No matter how sharp a knife is, it can never cut its handle."
"African","The queen ant feeds on its own ants."
"African","One decade is long enough to change the looks of mountains and rivers."
"African","No plant comes to flower but to wither."
"African","Once the teeth are together they can crack the bone."
"African","Once you've started a competition, you must carry it to the finish."
"African","One camel does not make fun of the other camel's hump."
"African","One can see it but must not say, when the master of a house passes excreta in a pot."
"African","On the day a monkey dies, all the trees are slippery."
"African","One day cannot make an elephant rot."
"African","Old people's speech is not to be dishonored -- after all, they saw the sun first."
"African","One doesn't call a hyena to displine a troublesome goat."
"African","One falsehood spoils a thousand truths."
"African","One finger cannot wash the whole face."
"African","One is born, one dies; the land increases."
"African","One lie spoils a thousand truths."
"African","One man's meat is another man's pet."
"African","One cannot put out fire with fire."
"African","Not the place where I was born but where I hang my hat is home."
"African","No sweat, no sweet."
"African","Nobody wages war with ghosts."
"African","Noise and hunting don't go together."
"African","Not all men who walk in the street naked are crazy."
"African","Not all the baboons that enter a maize field come out satisfied."
"African","Once bitten by a snake you feel suspicious even when you see a piece of rope."
"African","Not everything that glitters is gold or diamond."
"African","Seeing is different than being told."
"African","Not to know is bad; not to wish to know is worse."
"African","Nothing on earth is greedier than the eye."
"African","Nothing wipes your tears away but your own hand."
"African","Of what good is giving birth when later there regrets of disrespect."
"African","Oh hyena, don't give me excuse to eat me."
"African","Old men and women in the village are books of history and wisdom."
"African","Not everything on the body that swells is a boil."
"African","When you give a friend a goat, you have to let go of the leash."
"African","When you see a turtle on top of a fence post, you know he had some help."
"African","When weeds invade the land, it means the owner is absent."
"African","When you are rich, you are hated; when you are poor, you are despised."
"African","When you ask, you become a fool for a little while and when you don't ask you become a fool for the rest of your life."
"African","When you chase a fellow man reserve the strength to switch you back when he recharges and turns."
"African","When vultures surround you, try not to die."
"African","When you fight fire with fire, somebody is going to get hurt."
"African","When two elephants fight, it is the grass that gets trampled."
"African","When you know who his friend is, you know who he is."
"African","When you live next to the cemetery, you cannot weep for everyone."
"African","When you lose on the drum-beating if the gods, you lose on the rhythm and pace of life."
"African","When you plant a yam it produces another yam."
"African","When you see a palm tree, the palm tree has seen you."
"African","When the heart acts, the body is its slave."
"African","When you cry for rain, you cry for mud too."
"African","When the shadow of a tree is bent, straighten the tree, not the shadow."
"African","Where your mother is born, you can't call anyone a child."
"African","When the hunter returns and is holding mushrooms, don't ask him about how his hunt went."
"African","When the moon is shining the cripple becomes hungry for a walk."
"African","When the mother monkey leaves her baby to fall, one must not blame the dried branch."
"African","When the mouse laughs at the cat there's a hole nearby."
"African","When water stays for long it stinks."
"African","When the river dries up, we will all see where the crocodile sleeps."
"African","When you wake up in the morning you see the other person's butt."
"African","When the snake is in the house, one need not discuss the matter at length."
"African","When the threads unite, they can tie the lion."
"African","When there is a big tree, small ones climb on its back to reach the sun."
"African","When there is a misunderstanding between the left leg and right leg the entire body falls down."
"African","When there is no enemy within, the enemies outside cannot hurt you."
"African","When two ageing good friends fight, it's because of an old grouch."
"African","When the rain falls, it falls on both the freeborn and the slaves."
"African","Where there is life there is hope."
"African","When you see a rat running in a fire then what it's running away from is hotter than fire."
"African","Where the rooster crows there is a village."
"African","Where the young know, is where they believe it's raining."
"African","Where there are no fools, there would be no wise men."
"African","Where there is a crippled don't imitate is disability."
"African","Where the heart sleeps is where you're bound to go at dawn."
"African","Where there is a hippopotamus, be careful when passing with a pirogue."
"African","Where the cattle stand together, the lion lies down hungry."
"African","Where there is no shame, there is no honor."
"African","Where there is no wealth there is no poverty."
"African","Where water is the boss, there must the land obey."
"African","Where you killed from is not where you eat from."
"African","Where you won't feast from, you sense it sooner than later."
"African","This world is a harsh place, this world."
"African","Where there is a frog, the snake is not far away."
"African","Whenever lightening strikes, everyone runs to cover his or her own head."
"African","When you're a stranger in a land, if good comes to it may you have you share and if bad comes let it go to the owners of the land who know what gods should be appeased."
"African","When you're undressed then you're ready for anything."
"African","When your friend gives your wife an expensive present, it's time to get suspicious."
"African","When your house is on fire you don't choose who to help you put out the fire."
"African","When your leg is sinking your whole body should fill it."
"African","Where the rain falls there is no hunger."
"African","When your opponents are you're friends there must be problems ahead."
"African","When the head of a snake is cut off, the rest of his body is an ordinary rope."
"African","Whenever something stands, another thing stands besides it."
"African","Where comes a great man he doesn't come alone."
"African","Where God boils his yam that is exactly where the devil roasts his fish."
"African","Where many are gathered, there is much to be said."
"African","Where rain has ever been trapped before when it rains again it will get trapped once again."
"African","Where the cattle are, there the wolf shall die."
"African","When your neighbour is wrong you point a finger, but when you are wrong you hide."
"African","When a stiff-necked bull stands with its four legs planted firmly and refuses to move, you cannot make it go ahead only by pulling it by the reins and using your whip."
"African","When an old man dies, a library burns down."
"African","When a needle falls into a deep well, many people will look into the well, but few will be ready to go down after it."
"African","When a new saying gets to the land of empty men they lose their heads over it."
"African","When a rat mocks a cat then you know there is a hole nearby."
"African","When a rat swims with a frog, it dies of cold."
"African","When a mother has twins she must sleep on her back."
"African","When a slippery ground lies ahead do not laugh at those who have fallen."
"African","When a monkey doesn't get a banana, he eats chillies."
"African","When a stone is identified it cannot destroy a hoe."
"African","When a tortoise embarks on a journey he doesn't ask for directions, because he does not want his enemies to know where he's going."
"African","When all the water has gone, only the largest stones will remain on the riverbed."
"African","When an abomination has become of age it becomes a tradition."
"African","When an elephant becomes as small as a monkey, it ceases to be an elephant."
"African","When the heart overflows, it comes out through the mouth."
"African","When a single grass falls from a grass-thatched house it doesn't leak."
"African","When a lion cannot find the flesh to feed on, it has no choice but to eat the grass."
"African","When a cow is crying, a dog is making a party."
"African","When a coward sees a man he can beat he becomes hungry for a fight."
"African","When a cricket is quiet, it is digging."
"African","When a dog cannot bite, it has a bone in its mouth."
"African","When a fool is cursed, he thinks he is being praised."
"African","When a naked person promises you cloth beware."
"African","When a king has good counselors, his reign is peaceful."
"African","When bad luck chooses you as a companion, even a ripe banana can remove your teeth."
"African","When a lion runs and looks back, its not that he is afraid, rather he is trying to see the distance he has covered."
"African","When a man cheats on you once, shame on him, when he cheats on you twice, shame on you."
"African","When a man curses his own child it is a terrible thing."
"African","When a man raises his voice at home, know that he started lowering if elsewhere."
"African","When a man says he does not mind, then he really does."
"African","When a man says yes, his personal god says yes also."
"African","When a four-year child is still crawling instead of walking it is time to cry out."
"African","When the buttocks foul the air it's the head that gets knocked."
"African","When an elephant eats and eats and still cries for more, it is the grass that will get embarrassed."
"African","When the bee comes to your house, let her have beer; you may want to visit the bee's house some day."
"African","When the bells are in water they can't make any sound."
"African","When the big drum is sounded the small drums keep silence."
"African","When the big tree falls, the goat eats its leaves."
"African","When riding on top of an elephant do not assume there is no dew in the thicket."
"African","When the bush is on fire the chameleon learns to run first."
"African","When problems visit a man it arrives with its own bed and table."
"African","When the cock craws the heart of a debtor skips a bit."
"African","When the cock is drunk, he forgets about the hawk."
"African","When the cockroach decides to make the cock its friend it must be ready to end up in the cock's stomach."
"African","When the drummers change their beats the dancers must also change their Steps."
"African","When the eye sees you then your bound to go for duty."
"African","When the head is big it cannot avoid punches."
"African","When the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch."
"African","When one finger is swollen it affects the others."
"African","When cats are hairdressers, rats will always go around with uncombed hair."
"African","When deeds speak, words are nothing."
"African","When elephant steps on a trap, no more trap."
"African","When elephants fight, it is the grass who suffers."
"African","When elephants fight, it's the grass that suffers."
"African","When spider webs unite, they can tie up a lion."
"African","When many trees fall on top of one another, a wise man removes the one on top first."
"African","Wherever man goes to dwell his character goes with him."
"African","When one hand is injured the other nurses it, when both hands are injured they nurse each other."
"African","When one is in love, a cliff becomes a meadow."
"African","When one is in trouble, one remembers God."
"African","When one man's curse falls on a person another one breaks it."
"African","When one tries to shake a big tree, he ends up shaking himself."
"African","When problems come they carry along with them all their relatives."
"African","When kings lose direction they become servants."
"African","You cannot name a child that is not born."
"African","You cannot work for food when there is no food for work."
"African","You cannot expect me to carry you on my back and then you say my head smells."
"African","You cannot handle fire with your hands."
"African","You cannot hear a baby cry in the mother's womb."
"African","You cannot hide your nakedness from your bath bucket."
"African","You cannot dance without music though you can sing instrumentally without dancing."
"African","You cannot lock up science in one head."
"African","You cannot cure a wound by striking it gently."
"African","You cannot reject the head of a cow simply because the eye scares you."
"African","You cannot send a goat to rescue a lamb from a loin's attack."
"African","You cannot stop birds from flying over your head, but you can stop them nesting in your hair."
"African","You cannot stop planting cereals just because birds are going to feast on them."
"African","You cannot think you could teach a fish to swim."
"African","You can't hide the smoke when the house is burning."
"African","You cannot lean on air."
"African","You can't walk before you can crawl."
"African","Where you've ever left without a quarrel is where you're about to return."
"African","You can't jump a swamp before you reach it."
"African","You can't lead anyone further than you have gone yourself."
"African","You can't measure a snake until it's dead."
"African","You can't order a goat to eat the hyena."
"African","You cannot exchange peace for war."
"African","You can't tell the colour of somebody's cloth from his shadow."
"African","You chew from one side of your mouth and keep the other side still."
"African","You cannot amputate your genitals for being impotent."
"African","You cannot be a mouse and bat at the same time."
"African","You cannot beat a child to take away its tears."
"African","You cannot blindfold a man and expect him to ferry you across the river."
"African","You cannot build a house for last year's summer."
"African","You cannot climb a bid of success with your hands tied up."
"African","You can't spread a net to catch a bird that is watching you."
"African","You've seen many Komo, but you haven't seen the wild beast."
"African","You cannot win a lottery without buying a ticket."
"African","You never know a line is zigzag until you put a straight line against it."
"African","You see this thing called blood there is nothing like it."
"African","You should know what's being cooked in the kitchen otherwise you might eat a forbidden food."
"African","You shouldn't leave your own fire ablaze to go and put out your neighbour's fire."
"African","You may say the cassava in your mouth is bitter, but it is only looking at the next one."
"African","You wouldn't know how far the town is if you've been taken there."
"African","You may choose your friends but not your neighbours."
"African","Your brother's pocket cannot keep your wealth."
"African","Your feet will take you away from home but your stomach will bring you back."
"African","Your food is supposed to be your medicine and your medicine is supposed to be your food."
"African","Your greatest hope is your greatest fear."
"African","Your mind is like a parachute; it only works when it's open."
"African","Your mother is the bodyguard of your father."
"African","You will never know the importance of the buttocks, until they develop a boil."
"African","You don't have to lie down at the spot where your enemy has thrown you."
"African","You could destroy everything I have believed in and your father before you and his father before you."
"African","You do not beat a drum with one finger."
"African","You do not teach the paths of the forest to an old gorilla."
"African","You do not verify from your mother the authenticity of what your grandmother has told you."
"African","You don't become an expert in five days."
"African","You must judge a man by the work of his hands."
"African","You don't have to climb the palm wine tree to drink palm wine."
"African","You can't dance on one leg."
"African","You don't have to tell the deaf that there is a stampede in the market."
"African","You don't punish a fish by throwing it in water."
"African","You get what you deserve."
"African","You have to heal the wound before it ignores the medicine."
"African","You may as well die fighting the enemy than live exploited and be persecuted by him."
"African","You may be disappointed if you fail, but you are doomed if you don't try."
"African","You don't give someone a goat for a gift and still hold on to the rope."
"African","Wisdom is like a baobab tree, no one individual can embrace it."
"African","Without effort no harvest will be abundant."
"African","Whom a serpent has bitten a lizard alarms."
"African","Why take away something by force which you can obtain by love."
"African","Why they like an ugly person it takes long for a beautiful person to know it."
"African","Wine is not for the wrenched."
"African","Whoever stands in need of honey should not be afraid of bees."
"African","Wisdom does not come overnight."
"African","Whoever rides on the lion's back must surely end up in the lion's stomach."
"African","Wisdom is like a good skin bag every man carries his own."
"African","Wisdom outweighs strength."
"African","Wise sayings are men."
"African","With a little seed of imagination you can grow a field of hope."
"African","With much knowledge there is much sorrow, with much wisdom there is much weeping."
"African","You can't inject new ideas in a man's head by cutting it off."
"African","Wine is the drunkard's blanket."
"African","Who follows the elephant will have no problems."
"African","Wherever something stands, another thing stands beside it."
"African","Whether the egg crashes on the coconut or the coconut crashes on the egg, it is the egg that suffers."
"African","Whether the knife falls on the melon or the melon on the knife, the melon suffers."
"African","While the sun is shining, bask in it."
"African","White ants can do no harm to a stone."
"African","Whoever tells the truth is chased out of nine villages."
"African","Who eats too much, will then be sick."
"African","Without fingers, the hand would be a spoon."
"African","Who forgives wins."
"African","Who gets lost in the forest takes it out on who leads him back."
"African","Who owns too much, remains unhappy."
"African","Who takes a hut, also takes the rats and cockroaches."
"African","Who walks in the mud, at some point must clean his feet."
"African","Whoever has only one garment does not wash it when it rains."
"African","Who does not love to dance, does not love to sing."
"African","You can see the fowl's innerness when the wind is blowing."
"African","With time an egg will walk."
"African","You can learn a lot about someone by observing him when he is hungry."
"African","You can leave without a friend but never without a neighbour."
"African","You can never sow rice and expect to harvest maize."
"African","You can only know the fleas in the bed you have slept in."
"African","You can hide wine in a gourd but not in the belly."
"African","You can outrun what is running after you, but not what is running inside of you."
"African","You can beat a fool half to death but you can't beat the foolishness out of him."
"African","You can share the same bed but you can't share the same dream."
"African","You can stay a thousand miles away from home and still see inside."
"African","You can take a goat to the river, but you can't make it drink the water."
"African","You can teach other people how to learn other languages but you can't teach them how to govern themselves."
"African","You can tell a ripe corn by its look."
"African","You can't become a teacher before your taught."
"African","You can out run that which is running after you but not that that's running inside of you."
"African","Worry is like a rocking chair it swings you back and forth and it takes you nowhere."
"African","Without human companions, paradise itself would be an undesirable place."
"African","Without impalas and hyenas, the lion cannot be the king of the jungle."
"African","Woman without man is like a field without seed."
"African","Wood already touched by fire is not hard to set alight."
"African","Words are like arrows throw them only when you know where they will fall."
"African","You can kill a man's identity on earth but you cannot kill is spirit."
"African","Work is good, as long as you don't forget to live."
"African","When a chick ignores its mother's warning, the eagle grasps it for a meal."
"African","You always learn a lot more when you lose than when you win."
"African","You always pick the fruits of what you plant."
"African","You are invited to join the hunt when your nets are in evidence."
"African","You are not born a leader, you become one."
"African","You are only young once, but you can stay immature indefinitely."
"African","You ask for the ancestors' help and then help yourself."
"African","Words are like bullets; if they escape, you can't catch them again."
"African","The world has not made a promise to anybody."
"African","There are 40 kinds of lunacy, but only one kind of common sense."
"African","The words of the elders do not lock all the doors, they leave the right door open."
"African","The words of the wise become sweet the day after."
"African","The words you say to tell the truth are as important as the decision to be truthful."
"African","The world about us."
"African","The womb is not a boat, it cannot carry as much as a boat."
"African","The world has changed dramatically."
"African","The witness of a rat is another rat."
"African","The world is story."
"African","The worm that exposes itself on the ground is waiting for a lucky bird to devour it."
"African","The worst person doesn't lack some good deeds."
"African","The worst you can do to truth is to cloth it in lies, you can't undo it."
"African","The wrongdoer forgets, but not the wronged."
"African","The visitor who goes away without eating never comes back."
"African","The world does not make promises to anybody."
"African","The white ant is small but it creates the great anthill."
"African","When a cock invites a cockroach for a birthday party, he has prepared dinner for himself."
"African","The voices of the ancestors are the voices of the gods."
"African","The water can only flow thanks to the well."
"African","The water in your well can be very hot, but it will never cook your rice."
"African","The way a cat walks is not the way it catches a rat."
"African","The word ""yes"" brings trouble; the word ""no"" leads to no evil."
"African","The weed that grows by the riverbank will not suffer the effect of draught."
"African","There are forty kinds of lunacy, but only one kind of common sense."
"African","The wind does not break a tree that can bend."
"African","The wind helps those without an axe to cut wood."
"African","The wind that carried the mortar will not fail to carry the pestle."
"African","The wise create proverbs for fools to learn, not to repeat."
"African","The wise man is father of the fool."
"African","The wise traveler leaves his heart at home."
"African","The wealth of the greedy ultimately goes to the community."
"African","Think like a winner and you will be one."
"African","The zebra told the white horse, ""I am white,"" and told the black horse, ""I am actually black."""
"African","There is no venom like that of the tongue."
"African","There is no virgin in a maternity ward."
"African","There is no way you can pour water into a basket and expect the water to remain."
"African","There is not enough room for two elephants to sit in the same shade."
"African","There is no smoke without fire."
"African","They who dig the wells never drink from them."
"African","There is no point in living if we cannot take back our culture."
"African","It's better to flee danger and be laughed at than to face danger and be mourned."
"African","This, too, shall pass."
"African","If you wait for the downfall of the king, god will not make it sound."
"African","Those at piece, work for it."
"African","Those who are absent are always wrong."
"African","Those who are opposed to terrorism should not terrorise others."
"African","They laugh at you when your going but when you came back with a load they're a shamed."
"African","There is always a winner even in a monkey's beauty contest."
"African","There are many colourful flowers on the path of life, but the prettiest have the sharpest thorns."
"African","There are no short cuts to the top of a palm tree."
"African","There are no witnesses to a dream."
"African","There are three friends in this world: courage, sense, and insight."
"African","There are three things that a man must know to survive in this world: what is too much for him, what is too little, and what is just right."
"African","There is no such thing as bad weather, only bad clothing."
"African","There is a wise reason why a cock can't sound like a turkey."
"African","The viper assumes the colors of his surroundings."
"African","There is always one bull of the kraal."
"African","There is no better mirror than a best friend."
"African","There is no day that goes without the moon and no day that goes without sunrise and sunset."
"African","There is no medicine to cure hatred."
"African","There is no need to point out the obvious."
"African","There is no physician who can cure the disease of love."
"African","There is a good reason why natural water never runs at night."
"African","The sparrow says: ""I have not eaten... so the parrot will not eat either."""
"African","The strong will always rule, it's only a question of the content of the strength."
"African","The smaller the lizard the greater the hope of becoming a crocodile."
"African","The smoke caused by meat which is roasted does not cause pain in the eyes of a hungry person."
"African","The snail leaves its trail wherever it goes."
"African","The son shoots a leopard; the father is proud."
"African","The sight of books removes sorrows from the heart."
"African","The soul would have no rainbow if the eyes didn't have tears."
"African","The shortest distance between two people is a smile."
"African","The spirits are the strength and counsel to the living."
"African","The spring makes the stream flow."
"African","The start of weeping is always hard."
"African","The strength of a man can't be determined by is size."
"African","The strength of the elderly is in the ears and on the lips."
"African","The voice that comes to borrow is more humble than the voice that comes to sake payment."
"African","The song sang by men when going to hunt is not the same song they sing when they come back."
"African","The rope that hangs a monkey, hangs a baboon as well."
"African","The radiant and well-understood speech of one person is better than the speech of a thousand people that is not."
"African","The radiate sun reflections and lightening cannot make a blind person see."
"African","The raised hand cares not for its own recognition, but for that of the body below."
"African","The restless grasshopper only finds rest in the gizzard of a bird."
"African","The rich have no heart, the lake never floats a pin."
"African","The sky is wide enough for two birds to fly without their wings touching."
"African","The road to success is always under construction."
"African","The strongest man on earth is he who stands alone."
"African","The roughness of a cotton tree is not known until you get close to it."
"African","The ruin of a nation begins in the homes of its people."
"African","The same sun that melts the wax hardens the clay."
"African","The same teeth that a dog uses to play it uses to bite too."
"African","The sayings of the wise are like the sharp sticks that shepherds use to guide sheep."
"African","The secret of success is to start from scratch."
"African","The river does not move straight because it is alone."
"African","The tree breaks that takes all the force of the wind."
"African","The strength of the wolf is in the pack, the strength of the pack is in the wolf."
"African","The toad that wanted to avoid the rain fell in the water."
"African","The tongue can be so sweet but when the hands are too tough."
"African","The tongue is not statically smooth."
"African","The tongue weighs practically nothing, but so few people can hold it."
"African","The time to slap a king is the time when a fly touches on his cheek."
"African","The tortoise said it wants to box, but its hand is too short."
"African","The time to make friends is before you need them."
"African","The tree that is not taller than you cannot shade you."
"African","The turtle does not suffer when running."
"African","The two hardest things in life to handle are success and failure."
"African","The unborn baby that fears criticism will never be born."
"African","The venemous snake cannot be seen in the Savannah."
"African","The very fact that we are looking for something usually stands in the way of our finding it."
"African","The tooth is a fool because it smiles to whom it even dislikes."
"African","The tears of a man flow into the stomach."
"African","The strongest person among men is not he who fights everyone but is he who controls is anger."
"African","The success of a man is through the soles of his feet, that of a woman is from her legs."
"African","The sun shines during the day, not at night."
"African","The sun shines on those who are standing before it shines on the people kneeling under them."
"African","The sun will shine on those who are standing before it shines on those who are sitting."
"African","The time you wake up is your morning."
"African","The sweetness of a kola nut doesn't lie in its sugar content."
"African","Those who get on the same pirogue, have the same aspirations."
"African","The teeth are smiling, but is the heart?"
"African","The teeth that cannot move in unison cannot bit a piece of meat."
"African","The teeth that stink together are the ones to bite the meat."
"African","The thread follows the needle."
"African","The thrower of stones throws away the strength of his own arm."
"African","The tiger that prowls quietly doesn't mean it's intimidated."
"African","The sweet flying ants will never be birds."
"African","Well-timed silence is the most commanding __expression."
"African","What is put in a basket before going to the market won't be the same thing returned in the basket."
"African","Water that has been begged for does not quench the thirst."
"African","We have never seen the earth show her teeth."
"African","We rest our legs, but never our mouths."
"African","We shall not give the hyena twice."
"African","Water from another man's calabash tests differently."
"African","Wearing a mended dress is better than being naked."
"African","Wars are created by people to old to fight for those to young to die."
"African","What comes from the lips reaches the ears, what comes from the heart reaches the heart."
"African","What grows quickly, dies quickly."
"African","What is in a heart of a sober man is on the tongue of a drunkard."
"African","What is in the stomach carries what is in the head."
"African","What is in the yams that a knife doesn't know."
"African","Those who arrive to the spring first, drink the purest water."
"African","We start as fools and become wise through experience."
"African","Until the snake is dead do not drop the stick."
"African","United we are a rock, divided we are sand."
"African","Unless the broken tooth is thrown out the mouth will continue to chew with caution."
"African","Until a crab finds itself in a very hot pot of soup, it will never understand that water can be both cold and hot."
"African","Until Lions have their own historians tales of the hunt will always glorify the hunter."
"African","Until the lions have their historians, tales of the hunt shall always glorify the hunter."
"African","Water is colourless and tasteless but you can live on it longer than eating food."
"African","Until the rotten tooth is pulled out cautiously, the mouth will not have rest."
"African","What is said over the dead lion's body could not be said to him alive."
"African","Use people who have something to gain, not people with nothing to lose."
"African","Used recklessly then s/he must have inherited the misused property."
"African","Victory has a hundred fathers and defeat is an orphan."
"African","Villages that posses culture will never perish even though they may be small."
"African","Vision quest should be continuous."
"African","War is a bad chisel with which to curve out tomorrow."
"African","Until the old moon disappears completely, the new moon can not come."
"African","Whatever accomplishment you boast of in the world, there is someone better than you."
"African","What is past is gone, what is hoped for is absent, for you is the hour in which you are."
"African","What you cook with dislike is what your bound to eat."
"African","What you do with injustice often backfires."
"African","What you eat now comes out later."
"African","What you help a child to love can be more important than what you help him to learn."
"African","What we get takes away our troubles."
"African","What you may call small another will call it big."
"African","What we do with pity another would call it strength."
"African","Whatever nourished the goat until it grew a beard will continue to sustain him."
"African","When a bee stings a man, he doesn't set off to destroy all beehives."
"African","When a blind man is happy he gives money to his child to buy kerosene for his lamp."
"African","When a blind man tells you he is going to throw a stone, know that his foot is on the stone."
"African","When a cat wants to eat its own kitten it accuses them of smelling like rats."
"African","The rabbit that dances on the broken branch of a high tree must look down to see how many mouths are opened wide beneath."
"African","What you learn is what you die with."
"African","What never kills a herdsman never takes away his cattle."
"African","What is sweet in a fools mouth will surely finish is money."
"African","What is tightly rapped is known by only the rapper."
"African","What kills a calf comes from the udder."
"African","What lowers itself is ready to fall."
"African","What makes a fool excited now a wise person had heard before and isn't excited."
"African","What will kill a dog first blocks its nose."
"African","What makes up an anthill is the effort and order of determined and organised termites."
"African","Two is good, one alone cannot wash his back."
"African","What our husband says is what we also say."
"African","What reveals a man is his behavior in time of hunger."
"African","What the elders see while sitting the young ones standing on their toes won't see."
"African","What the eye has seen, the heart never forgets."
"African","What the gods keep for the poor, no man can destroy."
"African","What use to cover a mend in the Mona Lisa with a crayon."
"African","What makes a sheep blit loudly the goat had already seen before."
"African","Time is a teacher."
"African","Two rams cannot drink from the same bucket at the same time; they will lock horns."
"African","Thought breaks the heart."
"African","Through others I am somebody."
"African","Thunder cannot make a deaf person hear."
"African","Time destroys all things."
"African","Though it is the hand that gives, the man must be thanked."
"African","Time is a healer."
"African","Those who wear pearls do not know how often the shark bites the leg of the diver."
"African","Time lost is lost forever."
"African","To a man who only has a hammer in his tool kit, every problem looks like a nail."
"African","To be able to love other people you must be able to love yourself."
"African","To be an ancestral believer is to be a good ancestor."
"African","To be precautious doesn't mean fear phobia."
"African","To cut off the head is no remedy for the headache."
"African","Time heals all wounds."
"African","Those who master to climb trees with their teeth are in better position to tell which barks are bitter."
"African","When a child is asleep a mother's attention is on the child's stomach."
"African","Those who get their kola nut cracked by the spirit should not forget to be humble."
"African","Those who give birth to nincompoop it's not their wish."
"African","Those who have friends in the kitchen don't starve."
"African","Those who have not crossed the river yet should not laugh at those who are drowning."
"African","Though the sky belongs to the bird it can't fly when it's raining."
"African","Those who make friendship with a club shouldn't expect a good handshake."
"African","To handle yourself use your head to handle others use your heart."
"African","Those who move are the ones who see the lion's footprints."
"African","Those who never protect the values of their ancestors their soul will never rest peacefully."
"African","Those who part from there homeland part with there all life."
"African","Those who respect the elderly pave their own road toward success."
"African","Those who think there too big to do little things are perhaps to small to do big things."
"African","Those who walk slowly reach a far, hence to hurry is not worth."
"African","Those who judge before they know the facts will learn to shed tears."
"African","Truth and morning become light with time."
"African","Tough times don't last, tough people do."
"African","Train a child the way he should go and make sure you also go the same way."
"African","Travel and you will see them, sit and they will come to you."
"African","Travel makes one a stranger."
"African","Treat your guest as a guest for two days -- then on the third day give him a hoe."
"African","To form a dog is the ruin of education."
"African","True love means what's mine is yours."
"African","Too many cooks, cooking at the same time makes the day take long to break."
"African","Truth cannot be hidden forever beneath evil."
"African","Truth is like fire it cannot be hidden under dry leaves."
"African","Truth is the first victim of war."
"African","Two birds disputed about a kernel, when a third swooped down and carried it off."
"African","Two cats can never be equal; one will always be bigger than the other."
"African","Those who do not forgive break the bridge on which they have to pass."
"African","Troubles are like babies: the more they are nursed, the better they grow."
"African","To travel is to see, to return is to talk."
"African","Two men in a burning house must not stop to argue."
"African","To love a king is not bad, but a king who loves you is better."
"African","To love someone who does not love you, is like shaking a tree to make the dew drops fall."
"African","To love that one who never loves you is like rain falling in the forest."
"African","To neglect one's ancestors would bring ill-fortune and failure in life."
"African","To one who does not know , a small garden is a forest."
"African","Tortoises only make progress when they stick there necks out."
"African","To suffer doesn't mean to die."
"African","Too much happiness brings tears in our eyes."
"African","To trouble me is better than to forget me."
"African","To try and fail is not laziness."
"African","To try and to fail is not laziness."
"African","To whom to much is given we require too much from him."
"African","Too many calls confuse the dog."
"African","To guess is cheap, to guess wrong is expensive."
"African","To remove a fly from a friend's forehead never use a hatchet."
"African","All great truths begins as blasphemies."
"African","An animal that gives birth to a young one in the desert must suckle it in the desert."
"African","A worm cannot kill a fly."
"African","A wound given by a word is many times harder to cure than that which is given by the sword."
"African","A wound inflicted by a friend does not heal."
"African","After a foolish deed comes remorse."
"African","A word to the wise is enough."
"African","After the storm the sun comes out."
"African","A woman's strength is a multitude of words."
"African","All is well that ends well."
"African","All plants are our brothers and sisters and they talk to us and if we listen we can hear them."
"African","All things happen when their times come."
"African","All war follow a demonstrate failure of difficulty diplomacy."
"African","Almost everyone is mad but some people can control there madness."
"African","A wise man who knows proverbs, reconciles difficulties."
"African","After the evil cross the crown has come."
"African","A woman wearing trousers? What has she got hanging in there?"
"African","As long as the white man stutters, the interpreters have a lot of work."
"African","A wise saying goes without say."
"African","A wise will is dedicated to the ancestors for its them who gave you everything'"
"African","A woman is like a banana; one alone can turn the whole bunch rotten."
"African","A woman is like a bee treat her well and she will make honey, treat her badly and she will go wild."
"African","A word written stays forever than hundred spoken work."
"African","A woman listens only to the advice of a fool."
"African","An army of sheep led by a lion would defeat an army of lions led by a sheep."
"African","A woman who delivers a baby in the market square has nothing to hide."
"African","A woman who pursues a man for sex looses her spiritual beauty."
"African","A woman who runs holding her breast has got nothing pursuing her."
"African","A woman who wants a child doesn't sleep in her clothes."
"African","A woman's polite devotion is her greatest beauty."
"African","A woman's stomach does not grow if she is not pregnant."
"African","A woman is never old when it comes to the dance she knows."
"African","Any weapon is dangerous even to a person handling it."
"African","Always stamp your hunting nets where the animal is going to pass."
"African","An old woman is always uneasy when dry bones are mentioned in a proverb."
"African","An only palm-fruit doesn't get lost in the fire."
"African","An open mind only hurts those who fear their own mistakes."
"African","Anger against a brother is felt in the flesh, not in the bone."
"African","An old man may miss his target with a stone but never with his word."
"African","Any dead fish can flow down the river but it takes a live one to swim back up stream."
"African","An invasion of an army can be resisted but an invasion of ideas can't be resisted."
"African","Anyone can be polite to a king, but it takes a gentleman to be polite to a beggar."
"African","Anyone suffering from a running stomach is never afraid of the dark."
"African","Anyone who has sold an old lady, knows the price of an old man."
"African","Anything with a beginning also has an end."
"African","As long as a cock lives, it is said to have belonged to the child of the house; but when it is slaughtered for super, it is then that the real owner emerges."
"African","A reflection does not see itself."
"African","Anxiety will not let you die of hunger."
"African","An elephant that kills a rat cannot be considered a hero."
"African","An egg shouldn't be deceived by the hardness of its shell; it cannot challenge a stone in a fight."
"African","An egg today is better than a chicken tomorrow."
"African","An elder uses old eyes to see and so the young use young eyes."
"African","An elephant cannot thin to a cow size."
"African","An elephant does not die from one broken rib."
"African","An old man's mouth produces a bad smell but the words that come out of it are sweet."
"African","An elephant never gets tired of supporting its tusks."
"African","A wise man never knows all, only fools know everything."
"African","An empty hand doesn't kill a snake."
"African","An empty sack cannot stand."
"African","An endless war shames even a hero."
"African","An immoral father-in-law cannot advise his children well."
"African","An insolent tongue is a bad weapon."
"African","An intelligent enemy is better than a stupid friend."
"African","An elephant grows and becomes an adult, even if people do not like it."
"African","A small axe is not sufficient to cut down a large tree."
"African","A son will be what he was taught."
"African","A sick way between two people can only be cared for if the two of them die."
"African","A silly daughter teaches her mother how to bear children."
"African","A sin against a brother or sister is an offence against the gods."
"African","A single slip may cause lasting injury."
"African","A short person touches where he can reach."
"African","A sleeping head needs more than its neck to support it."
"African","A short man is not a boy."
"African","A small house will hold a hundred friends."
"African","A small shrub may grow into a tree."
"African","A snail that doesn't crawl with its shell should be ready to die."
"African","A snake and millipede can both craw on their bellies but this doesn't make them brothers."
"African","A snake can shade its skin but it still remains a snake."
"African","A wise person must know the language, sayings, and tales of his society."
"African","A slave must be humble."
"African","A rock in the middle of the sea is never afraid of the rain."
"African","If you wait for tomorrow, tomorrow comes. If you don't wait for tomorrow, tomorrow comes."
"African","A restless grasshopper eventually ends up in a birds teeth."
"African","A ripe melon falls by itself."
"African","A river doesn't flow through the forest without felling the trees."
"African","A river doesn't run straight because there was nobody to advise it."
"African","A short rope ties nothing."
"African","A roaring lion kills no game."
"African","A spider's cobweb isn't only its sleeping spring but also its food trap."
"African","A ruined people are as miserable as a dog in the house of death."
"African","A satisfied man doesn't understand the feeling of a hungry man."
"African","A scared dog barks to pretend to its master but a brave dog bits to protect him."
"African","A second wife cannot celebrate the beating of the first wife because that same beating awaits her when the third wife arrives."
"African","A secret remains a secret only when one person knows it."
"African","A severely under paid hungry teacher in a renovated, well-equipped classroom, can perform just as well as a bird without feathers can do in a hanging, decorated cage."
"African","A river that forgets its source will soon dry out."
"African","A warrior is not a wrestler, he's killed the moment is spear and shield are over powered."
"African","A snake's ears only listen to a stick."
"African","A tree is known by its fruit."
"African","A tree that refuses to dance will be made to do so by the wind."
"African","A true friend is a special gift."
"African","A turtle never abandons its carriage."
"African","A tree cannot stand on the ground without its roots."
"African","A visitor doesn't survive from a stick beat of a burglar."
"African","A thorn under a baobab tree pricks deeper."
"African","A weapon that you don't have in your hand will not kill a snake. Looking for something can get in the way of finding it."
"African","A weapon which you don't have in your hand won't kill a snake."
"African","A weird child at times brings sweet fruits at home."
"African","A whisper has more meaning than a noisy talk."
"African","A white tooth has a bloody root."
"African","A wind can move the branches of trees but it will never move the head of a man."
"African","A village without the elderly is like a well without water."
"African","A strawberry blossom will not sweeten dry bread."
"African","A spiritual leader is able to see the past, present and the future."
"African","A spoonful of honey will catch more flies than a gallon of vinegar."
"African","A stealing dog strengthens its back."
"African","A stern look is not a slap in the face."
"African","A stick at the neighbours cannot drive out a leopard at your home."
"African","A tree climber begins from the bottom not the top."
"African","A stranger has big eyes but sees nothing."
"African","As soon as you question someone's integrity, it is a reflection of your own."
"African","A stream cannot rise about its source."
"African","A strong man never stays long in the ground."
"African","A strong person doesn't rush to wake up early morning."
"African","A strong tree shall always grow from the roots and not the seeds."
"African","A sweet lovely voice cannot make a dumb person talk."
"African","A talkative person is a traveller when he is tired, he keeps quiet."
"African","A stolen object does not fill ones heart with joy."
"African","Do not run away from a pond of water."
"African","Do not try to fight a lion if you are not one yourself."
"African","Do not follow a person who is running away."
"African","Do not grab your heel until the ant has bitten you."
"African","Do not insult a crocodile while your feet are still in the water."
"African","Do not laugh at the fallen; you may find slippery roads ahead."
"African","Do not dispose of the monkey's tail before he is dead."
"African","Do not look where you fell, but where you slipped."
"African","Do not call to a dog with a whip in your hand."
"African","Do not speak badly of a crocodile when your leg is in the river."
"African","Do not speak of a rhinoceros if there is no tree nearby."
"African","Do not step on the dog's tail, and he will not bite you."
"African","Do not tell the man carrying you that he stinks."
"African","Do not tell the man who is carrying you that he stinks."
"African","Dancing depends on the parents."
"African","Do not look where you fall but where you slipped."
"African","Declare kinship with the hyena, and all hyenas are your friend."
"African","As long as I make you to be inferior, I render myself inferior."
"African","Death does not sound a trumpet."
"African","Death is a thief."
"African","Death is always news."
"African","Death is like a dress that, at some point or another, everyone has to wear."
"African","Do not eat the fingers that feed you."
"African","Debt is slavery."
"African","Do not walk behind us, we may not lead; do not walk in front of us, we may not follow; walk besides us, so that we may guide each other."
"African","Defeat is not failure but trail is total failure."
"African","Defiance is the biggest weapon of the weak."
"African","Despise not a snail for its slow and struggling movement; it has a destination and with time it shall arrive."
"African","Despite the beauty of the moon, sun and the stars, the sky also has a threatening thunder and striking lightening."
"African","Differences between husband and wife should not be aired in the marketplace."
"African","Do not call the forest that shelters you a jungle."
"African","Death is like a robe everyone has to wear."
"African","Don't see animals around the village and say there is nobody to hunt them."
"African","Do not throw away the oars before the boat reaches the shore."
"African","Don't loose hope no situation is permanent."
"African","Don't make a goat your friend if your skirt is made of plantation leaves, or else it will strip you naked."
"African","Don't meddle with a family feud."
"African","Don't move an ancient boundary stone or encroach on the fields of the fatherless."
"African","Don't look at the visitor's face but at his stomach."
"African","Don't respond to a mosquito bit with a stone because you will miss it and hunt yourself."
"African","Don't let your past dictate your future."
"African","Don't seek to hurt any man, but if any man seeks to hurt you may he break his neck."
"African","Don't set sail on someone else's star."
"African","Don't show a hyena how well you can bite."
"African","Don't tell your important secret to your friend because your friend has his other friends as well."
"African","Don't throw away your nets if you catch nothing, you never know what the gods are planning next."
"African","Don't try to get blood from a locust; God didn't put it in there."
"African","Don't question a blind man for buying a mirror, it must serve him some purpose."
"African","Don't ever try to give a spear to a former mad man."
"African","Do something at its right time, and peace will accompany it."
"African","Don't admire the flying bird before you know the pain of flapping."
"African","Don't ask me where I am going but where I have come from."
"African","Don't be stupid to replace wisdom with knowledge because you will lose understanding."
"African","Don't beat the drums of war unless you're ready to fight."
"African","Don't look into the eyes of your lover, or you will see what he has told many women before."
"African","Don't enter a defecating competition against an elephant."
"African","Cutting the ears of a mule will not make him a horse."
"African","Don't expect to be offered a chair when you are visiting a place where the chief sits on the floor."
"African","Don't give a dog a bad name in order to have an excuse to burn it."
"African","Don't insult the dead."
"African","Don't laugh at others."
"African","Don't laugh at the nakedness of our ancestors because before their eyes we're all naked for our spirits belong to them."
"African","Don't let a fool kiss you no let a kiss fool you."
"African","Don't count the many times a man falls but those times he rises up."
"African","Before shooting, one must aim."
"African","Being in the forest and failing to see trees is a curse."
"African","Be careful when you are sharing a calabash of porridge with a toothless man."
"African","Be humble in making demands even when making your demands."
"African","Beat one dog and the others will run away."
"African","Bees sting him who loves honey."
"African","Be careful of the words you say each day, make sure each is nice and sweet, because may be in the days ahead, there will be some you'll have to eat."
"African","Before killing the chicken carefully observe the character of your guest."
"African","Be aware of a man with a sweet tongue he can lead you to buying bad meat."
"African","Before you begin to trade in blame look in the mirror."
"African","Before you buy shoes, measure your feet."
"African","Behind every sweaty face of a cattle rustler is a story of determination and courage."
"African","Being a good friend of a scorpion doesn't mean that you can't be stung by a honeybee."
"African","Being a swimmer and spending time in the water does not make you a fish."
"African","Daybreak, mouth open."
"African","Before buying a house, see who your neighbours will be."
"African","At that particular time a mad person gives you something take it immediately before he changes is mind."
"African","As the dog said, ""If I fall down for you and you fall down for me, it is playing."""
"African","As the dog said, 'If I fall down for you and you fall down for me, it is playing.'"
"African","As the wound inflames the finger, so thought inflames the mind."
"African","As you do for your ancestors, your children will do for you."
"African","Ashes fly back into the face of him who throws them."
"African","Be careful of what you own because what you own might eventually own you."
"African","At a hunting expedition you cannot apportion the meat before you kill the animal."
"African","Being well dressed does not prevent one from being poor."
"African","Authority is in generosity."
"African","Avarice is the root of all evil."
"African","Bad friends will prevent you from having good friends."
"African","Bad luck for one man is good luck for another."
"African","Bad officials are elected by poor citizens who do not vote."
"African","Banish a strong man, banish a strong man but when there is war you will look for the strong man."
"African","Ashes will always blow back into the face of the thrower."
"African","Chop your own firewood and it will warm you twice."
"African","Being blind doesn't mean one cannot dream or imagine."
"African","By his deeds we know a man."
"African","By the time the fool has learned the game, the players have dispersed."
"African","By the time you tell a secret to a mad person then a normal person you cannot see."
"African","Call a cat a cat."
"African","Buy the truth but never sell it."
"African","Children are the reward of life."
"African","Brothers love each other when they are equally rich."
"African","Cleverness is better than strength."
"African","Clothes make the man."
"African","Clothes should not be made for an unborn child."
"African","Clouds do not always mean rain, but smoke is a sure sign of fire."
"African","Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole."
"African","Cream always rises to the top."
"African","Call kinship with the hyena, and all hyenas are your friend."
"African","Beware of time because it has the answers."
"African","Better a calamity to be far away."
"African","Better give birth to a sweating baby than a laughing one."
"African","Better stay with the devil you know than an angel you don't know."
"African","Better to aim at comfort' than at luxury."
"African","Better to bit your tongue than biting your words."
"African","By coming and going, a bird constructs its nest."
"African","Between true friends even water drunk together is sweet enough."
"African","A real family eats the same cornmeal."
"African","Birds sing not because they have answers but because they have songs."
"African","Blessings of ancestors are greater than those of a living human being."
"African","Bones and flesh of the martyrs lie buried in earth, but their revolutionary spirit and single-hearted fidelity remain alive."
"African","Book stands by itself and experience stands by itself."
"African","Born by the fire and die by the fire."
"African","Breaking news of the dead in the right way is very important."
"African","Between imitation and envy, imitation is better."
"African","A drowning man will clutch at a straw."
"African","A father voodoos with his son and a mother voodoos with her daughter."
"African","A dog returns to where he has been fed."
"African","A dog that belongs to every one will die of hunger."
"African","A dog will defend its territory though it's friendly."
"African","A dog will not follow its owner to follow a king."
"African","A dog knows its master but not its master's master."
"African","A donkey's husband can protect it from a hyena."
"African","A dog gives birth to a dog."
"African","A drunkard is like a whisky bottle only neck and belly but no head."
"African","A fallen branch cannot bear fruits on its own."
"African","A false friend is like a shadow their only with you when the sun is shining."
"African","A family is like a thick forest, often from outside its dense, when your inside each tree has its own position."
"African","A family tie is like a tree, it can bend but it cannot break."
"African","A cowardly hyena lives longer."
"African","A dog you don't feed will never heed your call."
"African","A debt may get mouldy but it never decays."
"African","A good reputation is something you must pay for, but you can never buy."
"African","A cutting word is worse than a bowstring, a cut may heal, but the cut of the tongue does not."
"African","A day of hunger is not starvation."
"African","A day you believe is not bad, is the one that becomes bad."
"African","A dead body cannot urge over how it should be placed in the grave."
"African","A dog never forgets his master."
"African","A debt may get moldy, but it never decays."
"African","A fatherless boy is no better than unburied seed."
"African","A determined hunter is never frightened in the jungle."
"African","A diamond doesn't lose its value due to lack of admiration."
"African","A difficult journey will make you daring and harden your will."
"African","A dirty stick makes everyone who touches it dirty."
"African","A dog cannot eat a bone tied to a snake."
"African","A dog does not mind being called a dog."
"African","A dead cock never crows."
"African","A good deed is something one returns."
"African","A father never resembles his son, it's the son that resembles the father."
"African","A gentle politician doesn't promise to build bridges where there is no water."
"African","A genuine gift is like water when it flows out it can never return."
"African","A girl's patience can only be recognised by how long she keeps her virginity."
"African","A goat does not always graze in the same place."
"African","A friend who fawns is better than an enemy who smiles."
"African","A good day shows itself early in the morning."
"African","A friend to everybody is a friend to nobody."
"African","A good devil is as equal as to a bad god."
"African","A good leader was once a good follower."
"African","A good man gone wrong is usually a bad man found out."
"African","A good man never stays in the grave forever, he always has chance to come back."
"African","A good name is better than wealth."
"African","A regular fighter who discords peace is bound to be fought by his own anger."
"African","A good beginning is a halfway a battle won."
"African","A fool looks for dung where the cow never browsed."
"African","A feather is just a delicate thing when removed from a bird because it carries the bird everywhere in the world."
"African","A fish and bird may fall in love but the two cannot build a home together."
"African","A fish will not live out of water but will prefer air to hot water."
"African","A fly that dances carelessly in front of a spider's web, risks the wrath of the spider's teeth."
"African","A fly that falls on your wound is more important."
"African","A genius is he who is first to be right'."
"African","A fool and water will go the way they are diverted."
"African","A coward always hides behind someone else after he has thrown a stone."
"African","A fool may chance to put something into a wise man's head."
"African","A foolish head weakens the feet."
"African","A foot must never quarrel with the ground."
"African","A foreign cock can never crow in a foreign country."
"African","A forest cannot be cut with a broken axe."
"African","A friend is one who knows every thing about you and still wants to be your friend."
"African","A fool and his money is one big party."
"African","A blind person knows his environment more than a visitor with eyes."
"African","A camel never sees its own hump."
"African","A bird doesn't forget one who killed off his feathers during the rain season."
"African","A bird may fly off the earth and land on an anthill, but it will still be on the ground."
"African","A bird that flies off the earth and lands on an anthill is still on the ground."
"African","A bird that prays for rain will find its self soaked."
"African","A big fish is caught with big bait."
"African","A blacksmith has no need of an axe."
"African","A beggar's knees are supple."
"African","A bottle that believes it's cracked to smile it will end up on the dustbin."
"African","A bowl should not laugh when a calabash breaks."
"African","A boy may cry; but a man as to conceal his pain."
"African","A bush that doesn't rotate baskets must not grow mushrooms."
"African","A butterfly thinks itself a bird because it can fly."
"African","A crime eats its own child."
"African","A bird with fire on its tail burns its own nest."
"African","A bad cook also has his/her share of the bad food."
"African","Smooth seas do not make skillful sailors."
"African","When there is no enemy within, the enemies outside cannot hurt you."
"African","Come and I'll tell you something, tickles the ear."
"African","What's all the fuss? said the crane after the eel had slipped away. ""I never liked fish anyway."""
"African","A baby on its mother's back doesn't know the journey is long."
"African","A bird doesn't alert his fellow bird that a stone is coming."
"African","A bachelor's wife doesn't have ears."
"African","A canoe peddler doesn't tell the crocodile he has along snout until he's crossed the river."
"African","A bad habit is like fire you can't play with it and expect not to get burnt."
"African","A bad wound deserves strong medicine."
"African","A barber does not shave himself."
"African","A barren woman is like a leaking pot."
"African","A beautiful one hurts the heart."
"African","A beggar won't mind being insulted."
"African","A bachelor should always spend minimum time with a friend's wife."
"African","A cloudy sky doesn't always cry rain."
"African","A camel cannot see the crookedness of its neck."
"African","A child who knows how to wash his hands will eat with the chiefs."
"African","A child who protested when being stripped on the back by its mother, it's humbled by the scorching sun when left to walk."
"African","A child's fingers are not scalded by a piece of hot yam which his mother puts into his palm."
"African","A child's hand is not burned by hot yam which is placed into his palm by his mother."
"African","A child who eats too much shouldn't blame is buttock."
"African","A clear conscience fears no accusation."
"African","A child while bathing only scrubs its stomach."
"African","A cock says it's because of the situation it is faced with that it has its knees in the opposite direction."
"African","A comb becomes bad when it hurts you."
"African","A corn swallowed by a fowl will never germinate in its belly."
"African","A corpse doesn't have time to cover its pubic region."
"African","A cow must graze where she is tied."
"African","A cow without a tail should not try to chase away flies."
"African","A clean conscience makes a soft pillow."
"African","A chief in the village never sees the devil."
"African","A cat in its castle has a lion's teeth."
"African","A cat keeps its crawls inside until it meets a mouse."
"African","A cat may go to a monastery, but she still remains a cat."
"African","A centipede is not crippled by the loss of one limb."
"African","A chameleon can only change its colour but never change its skin."
"African","A child who is fearless is going to bring tears to his mother's eyes."
"African","A chicken with beautiful plumage does not sit in a corner."
"African","A good smile shows how happy the soul is."
"African","A chief may have more wives than he can remember but you dare not try to share his wives with him."
"African","A chief should not create a new law when he is angry."
"African","A child among elders converses with its ears."
"African","A child can play with its mother's breasts, but not its father's testicles."
"African","A child doesn't belong to the father or mother; a child belongs to the ancestors."
"African","A child doesn't breast-feed from a stepmother if its mother is still alive."
"African","A chick that will grow into a cock can be spotted the very day it hatches."
"African","A man's wealth may be superior to him."
"African","A needle cannot hold two threads or a mind two thoughts."
"African","A man who touches the bottom of a soup plate with a ball of foofoo is no longer searching for soup."
"African","A man will never heed the voice of a woman until it is too late."
"African","A man will show his true colours in adversity."
"African","A man with a good will is not only rich but also wise."
"African","A man who pays respect to the great paves the way for his own greatness."
"African","A man's in-law is his spirit."
"African","A man who never recognises is mistakes will never know peace."
"African","A marketplace is not the pace for a husband and wife to argue. However long the night may last, there will be a morning. Daylight follows a dark night."
"African","A million of keys will get into a lock but only one will open it."
"African","A moonlight has a bottom."
"African","A mother cannot give birth to something bigger than herself."
"African","A mother of twin should have impartial breasts."
"African","A man never grows up until his father dies."
"African","A man with too much ambition cannot sleep in peace."
"African","A man who doesn't know how to play sex disappears after the first time."
"African","A good plan today is better than a perfect plan tomorrow."
"African","A man should not be too happy in the morning."
"African","A man should not, out of pride and etiquette, swallow his phlegm."
"African","A man who after his dying speech doesn't die, bears the same guilt."
"African","A man who cries all the time is not heard."
"African","A man who smiles when he's been robbed has stolen something from the thief."
"African","A man who does no hard work will never know the value of rest."
"African","A new broom sweeps well, but the old broom knows all the corners."
"African","A man who hides a thorn in his foot earns a swelling."
"African","A man who is patient is rewarded."
"African","A man who is putting on his armour for war should not boast like a man who's taking it off."
"African","A man who lives on the banks of the Niger should not wash his hands with spittle."
"African","A man who lives on the banks of the river should not wash his hands with spittle."
"African","A man who marries an outcast is like rain wasted in the forest."
"African","A man who dictates separates himself from others."
"African","A proud heart can survive a general failure because such a failure does not prick its pride."
"African","A mouse does not share a bowl with a cat."
"African","A person's cleverness is not shown by how many words he utters at once but how he utters them."
"African","A picture is worth a thousand words."
"African","A poor person has no struggles."
"African","A potter eats from a broken piece of his pots."
"African","A person who wants to see is people progress must first set to look into their tradition."
"African","A pretty basket does not prevent worries."
"African","A person who sells eggs doesn't start a fight in the market."
"African","A puppy must not confront a large animal."
"African","A raindrop does not spare the head of the notable."
"African","A rat never goes near a cat's celebration venue."
"African","A rat stinks, but it has its own home."
"African","A rat with many offspring always sleeps with his door open."
"African","A razor may be sharper than an ax, but it cannot cut wood."
"African","A pregnant woman cannot claim to be a virgin."
"African","A person is a person because of other people."
"African","A newly committed crime awakens sleeping ones."
"African","A nice place is never yours."
"African","A palm wine taper does not stop tapping palm wine because he once fell from the top of a palm wine tree."
"African","A parasite cannot live alone."
"African","A parent should not give up modelling their children because the ancestors too never give up on us."
"African","A person's character is like pregnancy it cannot be hidden."
"African","A person cutting the path doesn't know that it is crooked."
"African","A man must suffer in silence."
"African","A person is what he eats."
"African","A person who has not secured a place on the floor should not begin to look for a mat."
"African","A person who is always looking at the sky will never discover anything on the ground."
"African","A person who is carrying an elephant on his head should not use his feet to tap snails on the ground."
"African","A person who is not disciplined cannot be cautioned."
"African","A person who is stung by a bee fears a big housefly."
"African","A patient dually determined can fill a pot with water using a fingernail."
"African","A king is like a lake, you can't dispense him, otherwise, you risk drowning."
"African","A lazy fly cannot have a taste of a fresh wound."
"African","A husband may be the head of a home but the wife is the heart of a home."
"African","A hyena cannot smell its own stench."
"African","A hyena is used to persistent rains."
"African","A hypocrite's hatred is hidden behind flattering words."
"African","A hunter who is never satisfied with is gain will one day be forced to carry home an elephant."
"African","A juicy bone is useless to a dog with no teeth."
"African","A hungry man will thrust his fingers into a snake's hole in search of a grasshopper."
"African","A king who doesn't tolerate comments about his mouth shouldn't eat in public."
"African","A kinsman in trouble has to be saved, not blamed."
"African","A knife does not recognize its owner."
"African","A kola nut is small, but it is more important that it goes round to each person and not that it fills the stomach."
"African","A lamb takes after its mother."
"African","A man should live to prove himself worth of his own flesh and blood."
"African","A journey of a thousand miles starts with a single step."
"African","A happy man marries the girl he loves, but a happier man loves the girl he marries."
"African","A grasshopper that sleeps about will be soon awake in a lizard's mouth."
"African","A gravestone cannot be used for grinding."
"African","A green grass in the green snake."
"African","A guard dog cannot watch two homes at once."
"African","A guest sees more in an hour than a host in a year."
"African","A hunter with one arrow doesn't shoot with a careless aim."
"African","A hammer does not work with iron."
"African","A lazy man plants on a mad bark as an excuse for not planting."
"African","A hen's curses have never killed the eagle."
"African","A herdsman must yell to enter the fence."
"African","A home without a woman is like a barn without a yam."
"African","A horse may take the warrior to the battlefield but can never fight."
"African","A house is for a voyage but a tomb is for eternity."
"African","A hungry calf cannot frisk happily over another with a full stomach."
"African","A guest who breaks the dishes of his host is not soon forgotten."
"African","A man has to hold his mouth open a long time before a roasted partridge flies into it."
"African","A lazy chick that exposes itself will be a delicious meal for the eagle."
"African","A man and a goat can be friends but it would be foolishness for the goat to pay the first visit."
"African","A man can't challenge his spirit in a wrestling match."
"African","A man does not run among thorns for no reason; either he is chasing a snake or a snake is chasing him."
"African","A man doesn't escape from bees with a lump of honey in his hand."
"African","A mad dog bites anything except itself."
"African","A man gets to the land of spirits when he passes seven rivers, seven forests and seven hills."
"African","A long-tailed animal doesn't jump over fire."
"African","A man is always on the move."
"African","A man is called a drunkard when he misbehaves, not when he drinks."
"African","A man is not a man until he has a house of his own."
"African","A man is obliged to beat his own chest when he has no drum."
"African","A man is taller than every mountain he climbs."
"African","A man isn't dead until is buried."
"African","A man doesn't know when he kills."
"African","A lie has many variations, the truth none."
"African","A lazy man will remember he has not planted when is neighbour is harvesting."
"African","A lazy man's farm is the breeding ground for snakes."
"African","A leader does not rise for a squirrel."
"African","A leader is he who tells his people what they must hear, not what they want to hear."
"African","A leopard is chasing us, and you are asking me, ""Is it a male or a female?"""
"African","A man accused of stealing a goat should not entertain his visitors with goats meat."
"African","A lie can travel half way around the world while the truth is still putting on its shoes."
"African","Don't undermine my silence, its got reason; don't rate it, it as got no scale."
"African","A little rain each day will fill the rivers to overflowing."
"African","A little subtleness is better than a lot of force."
"African","A lizard can't be a snake even without its limbs."
"African","A lizard longs to sit down but its tail doesn't let it."
"African","A lizard without one leg cannot move up a tree."
"African","A long lasting visitor grinds the wine."
"African","A leopard is such an elusive animal that it can only be caught by the combined force of a man and his father-in-law."
"African","If you have a dog, don't throw away bones."
"African","If you have patience you can take out the holes of an anthill."
"African","If you get rich, be in a dark corner when you jump for joy."
"African","If you give a handshake to the leopard, next time he will come for an embrace."
"African","If you give bad food to your stomach, it drums for you to dance."
"African","If you go to your in-laws you do not come back empty handed but with a cock."
"African","If you flog a baboon because it is ugly, you will end up killing it."
"African","If you have a dog to worship you, you must have a cat to ignore you."
"African","If you fill your head with pride you will lack space for wisdom."
"African","If you have a poor father that is destiny; if you have a poor father-in-law, that is your mistake."
"African","If you have escaped the jaws of the crocodile while bathing in the river, you will surely meet a leopard on the way."
"African","If you have five wives, then you have five tongues."
"African","If you have ground nuts in your room expect rats."
"African","If you have health you have hope you have everything."
"African","If you dance with the devil you can't change him but he will change."
"African","If you hate your ancestors then assume your dead than you will love the hereafter."
"African","If you don't know where your going to then any road will take you where you're going."
"African","If you think you're too small to be noticed go and sleep in a room which is full of mosquitoes."
"African","If you decide to dress up a lizard you should count for its tail."
"African","If you dig a hole to bury a person but instead of burying that person you may be the one to be buried in this place."
"African","If you do not have patience you cannot make beer."
"African","If you don't eat mangos that fall on the ground, be sure to be strong enough to pick ones on the tree."
"African","If you get annoyed of what you see, you blame your eyes."
"African","If you don't know the path to the spring or swamp, follow the trail of broken pots."
"African","If you haven't any sheep you won't know that a fox is a wild animal."
"African","If you don't mend up a small crack on the wall you end up building the entire wall."
"African","If you don't scale the mountain, you can't view the plain."
"African","If you don't stand for something, you will fall for something."
"African","If you don't want a tail of a monkey to touch you then don't attend the monkey dance."
"African","If you don't work you shan't eat."
"African","If you fail to plan, you plan to fail."
"African","If you don't inquire, you're bound to make mistakes."
"African","If you see someone riding a bamboo-cane, tell him ""What a lovely horse!"""
"African","If you have not been to two different bazaars, then you do not know what the best value is."
"African","If you point one accusing finger at others, three fingers will point at you."
"African","If you put a bone in the dog's mouth it doesn't bark."
"African","If you refuse to be made straight when you are green, you will not be made straight when you are dry."
"African","If you run after two hares you will catch neither."
"African","If you offer to share your seat with a person who has a big bottom your bound to lose it completely."
"African","If you see an animal running in the early morning know that it is running away from something more scarily than the due."
"African","If you observe attentively you will even find wisdom in shadows."
"African","If you see wrongdoing or evil and say nothing against it, you become its victim."
"African","If you see your brother being scalped, put water on your hair."
"African","If you stoop to see your neighbour's anus, then your own anus is wide open for others to see, even more easily and clearly."
"African","If you tell people to live together, you tell them to quarrel."
"African","If you think education is expensive try ignorance."
"African","Don't underestimate the determination of a quiet person."
"African","If you run too fast you bypass a safe place you would have hidden yourself."
"African","If you know his father and grandfather, don't worry about his son."
"African","If you haven't done anything evil then you shouldn't be worried about devils knocking on your door."
"African","If you hide a sick person, your lamentation alarm will only announce his death."
"African","If you ignore your own relatives you will serve the outsiders."
"African","If you keep stirring at a girl you cannot have you will never see a girl you can have."
"African","If you keep your head and heart going in the right direction you don't have to worry about your feet."
"African","If you pay homage to the man on top, others will pay homage to you when it's your turn to be on top."
"African","If you knock your head against a wall, then a coconut tree and pillar and your head still remains undamaged my child, go and hide that head of yours; it is a good head."
"African","If you damage the character of another, you damage your own."
"African","If you know the beginning well, the end will not trouble you."
"African","If you lie the ancestors will punish you."
"African","If you live by the river you can hear the crab cough."
"African","If you live in a glasshouse you should not throw stones."
"African","If you man is a wizard, you must become a witch."
"African","If you need ears go and borrow them from the elephant."
"African","If you kill time, you'll bury opportunities."
"African","If the needle doesn't pass, the thread doesn't follow."
"African","If they are offered winged ants, people will eat them."
"African","If sweetness be excessive, it is no longer sweetness."
"African","If the banana pest doesn't die it will always reach at the ripe banana."
"African","If the fish comes out of the river to tell you that the crocodile has one eye, you should believe it."
"African","If the goat rejects the grass, its belly is full."
"African","If someone is walking towards you, you don't need to tell him ""come here."""
"African","If the nail decided to malinger, it would not pierce butter."
"African","If someone is waiting for something important they wouldn't die until they achieve it."
"African","If the rabbit is your enemy, admit that he can sprint fast."
"African","If the rhythm of the drum beat changes, the dance step must adapt."
"African","If the sun said it had power over the moon then let it come and shine at night."
"African","If the throat can grant passage to a knife, the anus should wonder how to expel it."
"African","If there is something one really wants to achieve, one is willing to go an extra mile and overcome the difficulties to achieve it."
"African","If you debark a tree don't expect it to live again; you can only plant another of its kind."
"African","If the moon is with you, you need not care about the stars."
"African","If it's not here and now, who cares about what and when?"
"African","If a tree is cursed even its shade is unclean."
"African","If all snakes live together in one place who would approach them."
"African","If an insect as ever bit you when you see it, you kill it or run away."
"African","If I see you often, I can't call you a visitor."
"African","If it hurts to spend your money, you will go hungry."
"African","If stretching were wealth, the cat would be rich."
"African","If it's a big man that is hurting you, smile at him."
"African","If two brothers fight over their father's land, it is a stranger who will enjoy there sweat and labour."
"African","If money where to be found up in the trees, most people would be married to monkeys."
"African","If nakedness promises to cloth you then look at its name."
"African","If one didn't laugh, one would have to cry."
"African","If opportunity doesn't knock build a door."
"African","If rain beats the teeth, the lips get the blame."
"African","If she can't dig or cook send her back to her father."
"African","If it is not broken don't try to fix it."
"African","If you choose to make friendship with a pig you must be prepared to live in the mad."
"African","If there were no elephants in the jungle, the buffalo would be big."
"African","If you can't hold children in your arms, please hold them in your heart."
"African","If you can't stand the heat then get out of the kitchen."
"African","If you cannot moan in a true cultural manner then it means your laughing."
"African","If you carry the egg basket do not dance."
"African","If you can't distinguish how to whistle a festival alarm from a warning alarm, then better not alarm and let s/he who knows the difference to do the alarming."
"African","If you choose to lie down with dogs, you must be prepared to wake up with fleas."
"African","If you can walk, you can dance; If you can talk, you can sing."
"African","If you climb up a tree, you must climb down the same tree."
"African","If you close your eyes because of the bad people around you, you will not see the good people passing by."
"African","If you close your eyes to facts, you will learn through accidents."
"African","If you cry and receive someone to help you cry more then you cry more."
"African","If you cry because you miss the sun, your tears will not let you see the moon."
"African","If you cure a monkey of its tooth ache its your maize farm that suffers."
"African","If you chase two rabbits you will catch none."
"African","If you are too modest, then you will go hungry."
"African","If water were enough, fish would not take bait."
"African","If we do what we always did we will always remain what we always we're."
"African","If wisdom is measured by the size of the beard then the goat is a philosopher king."
"African","If you are building something and a nail breaks, should you stop building altogether, or should you change the nail?"
"African","If you are digging a pit for your enemy, don't make it too deep, for you may fall into it."
"African","If you can't eat a little your mouth stinks."
"African","If you are threatened by a man, sleep at night, if it is by a woman then stay awake."
"African","If you tie a frog on the leg a snake will follow you."
"African","If you are too smart to pay the doctor, you had better be too smart to get ill."
"African","If you aren't in your own home, you dance while seated."
"African","If you befriend a mosquito it will still attack you at night."
"African","If you borrow from an eagle you will always be looking up in the sky."
"African","If you break a coconut on a man's head, he will not enjoy eating it."
"African","If you can bear the hissing of a snake, don't complain when you are bitten."
"African","If you are not an animal you will never find yourself in a trap."
"African","It is not what you are called, but what you answer to."
"African","It is only the eagle that can give an account of the whisper of the cloud."
"African","It is Mr. Old-Man-Monkey who marries Mrs. Old-Woman-Monkey."
"African","It is no disgrace at all to work for money."
"African","It is not by watching a newly wed wife that she is going to become pregnant."
"African","It is not right to ask a man with elephantiasis of the scrotum to take on small pox as well, when thousands of other people have not had even their share of small diseases."
"African","It is in the eyes of a lazy man that maize will ripen."
"African","It is not the things in the soup that I am afraid of but perhaps the person I am eating with."
"African","It is impossible to tie a knot without the thumb."
"African","It is not with saying, ""Honey,"" ""Honey,"" that sweetness will come into the mouth."
"African","It is not work that kills, but worry."
"African","It is not worth telling a lovely story at the funeral."
"African","It is odd for a dog to look unconcerned when a sheep is barking at a stranger."
"African","It is only a mad dog that barks at a flying bird."
"African","It is a person suffering from cold who will first think of closing the door."
"African","It is not the lamb that should go and ask the lion if it has had dinner."
"African","It is childish to remain in a hole when you can take yourself out."
"African","If you think you are too small to make a difference, try sleeping in a closed room with a mosquito."
"African","It is a surprise that the cock should hold a grudge against the pot, instead of the knife that killed it."
"African","It is better to be kind to our neighbors than to cross the world to offer incense to our ancestors."
"African","It is better to be loved than feared."
"African","It is better to blush than to keep the concern in your heart."
"African","It is in the house of a coward that people gather and point to the tomb of yesterday's warrior."
"African","It is better to walk fast than to grow angry at the forest."
"African","It is only the early risers who succeed in filling their baskets with white ants."
"African","It is difficult for two long-nosed lovers to kiss."
"African","It is easier to carry an empty cup than one that is filled to the brim."
"African","It is easier to catch a bird at night than day."
"African","It is easy to become a monk in one's old age."
"African","It is from listening to old men that you learn wisdom."
"African","It is hard even for the most selfish man to eat fish in the darkness."
"African","It is better to host a good stranger than a bad brother."
"African","It's better fast than later."
"African","It is only a stupid cow that rejoices at the prospect of being taken to a beautiful abattoir."
"African","It takes a village to raise a child."
"African","It takes a whole village to raise a child."
"African","It will be fool's hardy for the ant to chase an elephant."
"African","It's a bad child who does not take advice."
"African","It takes a breast for a child to know it's mother and it takes a mother for a child to know its father."
"African","It's always hard to convince a hungry person."
"African","It s the discontented fish that envies the solely bird."
"African","It's better not to rise at all than to rise and fall."
"African","It's better to ask than to steal."
"African","It's better to be punished for telling the truth than to be rewarded for saying lies."
"African","It's better to break than to bend."
"African","It's better to eat a mushroom in freedom than to eat meat in slavery."
"African","It's better to eat pepper and be happy than to eat honey and be sad."
"African","It's a friend who gives you advice."
"African","It is the spirit that walks a person through darkness."
"African","It is only the foolish cock that believes the sun won't rise if he doesn't crow."
"African","It is only when you look down that you can see your nose."
"African","It is possible to kill a man but it is impossible to kill his name."
"African","It is the absence of a cat that allowed the rat to climb onto the table."
"African","It is the calm and silent water that drowns a man."
"African","It takes a season for a snake to change into its new skin."
"African","It is the path of the needle that the thread is accustomed to follow."
"African","It is a man with a harp who should decide how he is going to sleep."
"African","It is the traveller who carries the news."
"African","It is unwise for one to think that a hen will ever be accorded respect in the land of the hawks."
"African","It is when one holds the sacrificial lamb that he begins to seek the gods."
"African","It may take a lot of time to fabricate a lie but the truth only takes seconds to elevate."
"African","It rained on the mountaintop, but it was the valley below that got flooded."
"African","It requires a lot of carefulness to kill a fly that touches on the scrotum."
"African","It is the cloth of an orphan that is often given to the guest."
"African","If you want to smear somebody's face with mud, be prepared to dirty your hands."
"African","If you're filled with pride then you will not have room for wisdom."
"African","If you want to improve your memory, lend someone money."
"African","If you want to know how long a man's tongue is, let him use his mouth to lick honey from a plate."
"African","If you want to know how the true story goes, wait till the arguments start."
"African","If you want to lean on a tree, first make sure it can hold you."
"African","If you want to fight fire, you don't wear a skirt made of dry grass."
"African","If you want to sit under a shade in your old age plant a tree now."
"African","If you want to eat a toad, you should look for a fat and juicy one."
"African","If you want visitors then you leave your front door open."
"African","If you waste time, surely time will waste you."
"African","If you were in a place you take care of it has if it where yours."
"African","If you what the hyena to eat a person then tie on him goats ears."
"African","If you're a good person even after death your grave is loved."
"African","It is a stupid dog that barks at an elephant."
"African","If you want to remove a mountain start with one stone at a time."
"African","If you want a better tomorrow do good today."
"African","If you travel with lies you will reach your destination but you might be unable to retrace your steps."
"African","If you value piece and freedom you will loose it."
"African","If you wait be prepared to be stung by the bees."
"African","Though the leopard is fierce, it does not devour its cubs."
"African","If you wait for the roasted liver to cool it will get cold in someone else's mouth."
"African","If you want to grow a long tooth you must have enough lips to cover it."
"African","If you wait you may never start."
"African","If you're going home, you don't get wet."
"African","If you want people to understand you, you speak their language."
"African","If you want to blame the fox, then blame the hen too."
"African","If you want to catch a black goat you make haste before it's dark."
"African","If you want to clean the land secretly, the noise of the axe will give you away."
"African","If you want to drink clear water from a well be there first."
"African","If you want to eat a monkey, don't look in its eyes."
"African","Your previous lies will contradict your future truths."
"African","In the great river there are large and small fish."
"African","If you're caught in a trap then you're the thief."
"African","In a strange land one should always move near one's kinsmen."
"African","In all the world, things are two and two."
"African","In good times friends know you and in bad times you know them."
"African","In hell there are no fans."
"African","In a community it's better every person to have a little of something than one person to have everything."
"African","In the birds' court, a cockroach never wins his case."
"African","If your vision is for a year plant wheat, if you vision is for a decade plant trees, and if your vision is for a lifetime plant people."
"African","Indecision is like a stepchild: if he does not wash his hands, he is called dirty, if he does, he is wasting water."
"African","Innocence can be an offence."
"African","Instead of being near a pagan you rather be near an animal."
"African","It costs you your good spirit to steal than buying or seeking."
"African","It doesn't matter how slowly you walk, just as long as you don't stop."
"African","It is a foolish fly that is buried with a corpse."
"African","In the absence of water lizards can claim to be crocodiles."
"African","If you're very unkind today don't expect favours tomorrow."
"African","If you're holding someone you can drop him and move on."
"African","If you're not at the war front its easy to assume we didn't put up a good fight."
"African","If you're not living on the edge... you're taking up too much room."
"African","If you're not part of the solution, you're part of the problem."
"African","If you're not thankful then you're a wizard."
"African","In a family if you have somebody who is troublesome it's the family members who are worried than the troublesome member."
"African","If you're to jump a swamp, you need to make one long hurdle."
"African","If a man rides on the back of a tiger, he should never be surprised if he ends up in its tummy."
"African","If you've never been to a pit latrine, you will never know that cockroach is a chief."
"African","If your brother is rich it doesn't mean you're rich."
"African","If your cornfield is far from your house, the birds will eat your corn."
"African","If your husband has many wives, the only sure way for him into you're the bedroom is through a delicious meal."
"African","If your mouth is in someone else's kitchen it cannot get its independence."
"African","If your mouth turns into a knife, it will cut off your lips."
"African","If you're to cure a chicken you do so while it is still kicking."
"African","Going slowly doesn't stop one arriving."
"African","Grass doesn't grow on a bushy road."
"African","Getting only a beautiful woman is like planting a vine on the roadside everyone feeds on it."
"African","Give a man a fish and he won't starve for a day. Teach a man how to fish and he won't starve for his entire life."
"African","Give a stammerer enough time and he will pronounce his father's name."
"African","Give me a fish and I will eat today, teach me to fish and I will eat for a lifetime."
"African","Get hold of the little you have as you struggle for more quantity or quality."
"African","God conceals himself from the mind of man, but reveals himself to his heart."
"African","Generosity is white and pure like milk."
"African","Good millet is known at the harvest."
"African","Good music goes with good food."
"African","Good resolutions are like babies crying in church, they should be carried out immediately."
"African","Good things are hot."
"African","Good things sell themselves; those that are bad have to be advertised."
"African","Fire does not make fire, only ashes."
"African","Goats cannot live in a herd of leopards."
"African","For one to succeed in life, one has to work hard."
"African","If a soldier doesn't have ambitions to become a general is not a good soldier."
"African","Fire that is surrounded by elders cannot burn you."
"African","Firewood yields ash."
"African","Follow the liar right to his door."
"African","Food gained by fraud tastes sweet to a man, but he ends up with gravel in his mouth."
"African","Get what to lend out and at the same time how to demand it back, for payment might be a tussle."
"African","Foolhardiness made the rat try to jump over the fireplace."
"African","Great events may stem from words of no importance."
"African","For the fisherman, the fun is over when the fish are in the net."
"African","For the sake of the rose the thorn is watered too."
"African","For tomorrow belongs to the people who prepare for it today."
"African","Fun is like fine beer it is rarely enjoyable alone."
"African","Generally with life you will be betrayed by close relatives."
"African","Generosity has its disadvantages."
"African","Food you will not eat you do not boil."
"African","He who asks for the meaning of a proverb has called her/his mother's dowry a waste."
"African","Gossiping about the enemy can result in a war."
"African","He ought to be feared who sends you with a message, not the one to whom you are sent."
"African","He that beats the drum for the mad man to dance is no better than the mad man himself."
"African","He that dines with the gods must do so with a very long spoon."
"African","He that fights for a ne'er-do-well has nothing to show for it except a head covered in earth and grime."
"African","He is a wise man who has no worries about the things he doesn't have but he rejoices for those things that he has."
"African","He who angers you controls you."
"African","He is a fool who praises the fruit of a tree and forgets its roots."
"African","He who asks questions, cannot avoid the answers."
"African","He who asks you to converse ends up telling others that you're shouting."
"African","He who banishes you is the one who shows you the way."
"African","He who betrays you is not one from far away."
"African","He who brings firewood infected with maggots in his house should not complain when lizards start visiting him."
"African","He who burns down his house knows why ashes cost a fortune."
"African","He that fought the lion must surely have the lion's claws in his body."
"African","Haste and hurry can only bear children with many regrets."
"African","Great men think alike."
"African","Greatness is not achieved with violence."
"African","Greed loses what it has gained.."
"African","Happiness is like a perfume, you cannot pour it all on others without allowing a few drops to fall on yourself."
"African","Happiness is not perfected until it is shared."
"African","He on whose head we would break a coconut never stands still."
"African","Happy is a man who goes hunting for rats and catches an elephant."
"African","Evil prospers because good men fail to act."
"African","Haste bequeaths disappointment."
"African","Haste makes waste."
"African","Having a goal is just a dream with a deadline."
"African","Having a good discussion is like having riches."
"African","Having beauty doesn't mean understanding the perseverance of marriage."
"African","Having little knowledge is like having your hands tied around your neck like a slave."
"African","Happiness often sneaks through your door when you left the door open."
"African","Even if the elephant is thin he is still the lord of the jungle."
"African","Even if you're rich, you cannot bury yourself."
"African","Even a close friend cannot rescue one from old age."
"African","Even a healer's lies are a big relief to a sick person."
"African","Even a horn can be stopped from fighting and made to sing forever."
"African","Even boiled water can extinguish a fire."
"African","Eating what you plant is better than begging for leftovers."
"African","Even if a baby seems unpleasant to look at, his mother never refuses him."
"African","Eating tough meat is always harder for a toothless lion."
"African","Even if the hen is poor it cannot leave blank eggs."
"African","Even if thin, the elephant remains the king of the forest."
"African","Even if you close your eyes while looking in the mirror the image remains yours."
"African","Even if you dance for you enemy on the rock, he will accuse you of splashing water on him."
"African","Even if you rease your clothes in very hot water you still need to dry them."
"African","Fire is always a good maid, but a bad boss."
"African","Even drumsticks are heavy on the way home after the dance."
"African","During the dry season it is better to befriend the owner of the pirogue."
"African","It's better to fall from a tree and a break your back than to fall in love and break your heart."
"African","Don't wait for an anthill to build up in your mushroom better attack its origin sooner than later."
"African","Don't water your friend's garden when yours is full of weeds."
"African","Dreams are related to the past but connected to the future."
"African","Dreams are voices of ancestors."
"African","Enjoy breakfast all alone, share lunch with your best friend and give dinner to your enemy."
"African","During a storm you seek shelter under a tree and not the clouds."
"African","Even the best cooking pot will not produce food."
"African","Each trip gives you its own uniqueness."
"African","Ears are usually uninvited guests."
"African","Ears that do not listen to advice, accompany the head when it is chopped off."
"African","Earth is the queen of beds."
"African","Eating a lot does not satisfy greediness."
"African","Eating is kinship."
"African","Dry thunder that tears the sky doesn't make you forget the storm of yesterday."
"African","Every time an old man dies it is as if a library has burnt down."
"African","Even if you remain an island you must still be friendly to the sea."
"African","Every fresh banana leaf should eventually become a dry banana leaf."
"African","Every frog is a gazelle in the eyes of its mother."
"African","Every head must do its own thinking."
"African","Every hill has its leopard."
"African","Every bad person deserves a bad problem."
"African","Every old man was once a young man but not every young man will become an old man."
"African","Every action has its repercussions."
"African","Every time you have something good there is someone who wants you to throw it so as they can pick it."
"African","Everybody has been young before, but not everybody has been old before."
"African","Everyone has a right to be stupid some just abuse the right."
"African","Everything has a pattern and a partner."
"African","Everywhere there is a lot of mad even an elephant will slip."
"African","Evil enters like a needle and spreads like a oak tree."
"African","Every misfortune is a blessing."
"African","Even two friendly dogs cannot share a single bone."
"African","Even the colours of a chameleon are for survival not beauty."
"African","Even the dog leaves the market."
"African","Even the high and noble bow before the barber."
"African","Even the mightiest eagle comes down to the treetops to rest."
"African","Even the small leopard is called leopard."
"African","Every exit is an entry to somewhere."
"African","Even though the elephant is huge enough it cannot carry a big tail."
"African","He who chews two bones at the same time will surely bite his tongue."
"African","Even when a goat knows that it is being dragged to graze, it still resists."
"African","Even when a snake doesn't bit, do not put your finger in it's mouth."
"African","Even when there is no rooster, the morning will still start."
"African","Even when you dig a soft place, you still leave the garden."
"African","Even without drumbeats, banana leaves dance."
"African","Even your dog knows the homes of your friends."
"African","Even the starving man cannot eat the king's regurgitate."
"African","He who will be a man can be seen from how he stretches is little manhood."
"African","Him with a bushy field cannot harvest edibles from it."
"African","He who wakes up and finds himself a success hasn't been asleep."
"African","He who wakes up early in the morning receives a bundle of blessings."
"African","He who wanders along the beach doesn't eat his rice dry."
"African","He who wants authority should never be a visitor."
"African","He who visits you personally is better than another who sends a delegate."
"African","He who wants to take much dies before going to the in-laws for introduction."
"African","He who ventures into the bush should close his ears to rattling."
"African","He whose mother is naked is not likely to clothe his aunt."
"African","He, who is free of faults, will never die."
"African","Heal yourself first before you heal others."
"African","Heaven and earth shall never meet."
"African","Help me during the flood, and I will help you during the drought."
"African","He who came to work never sleeps."
"African","He who wants to plant corns must make peace with the monkeys."
"African","He who swallows an old man vomits grey hair."
"African","He who rides upon an ass cannot help but smell its gas."
"African","He who runs after good fortune runs away from peace."
"African","He who sacks his wife because she eats a lot will end up marrying a cannibal."
"African","He who says we shall hear what happened never responds to any alarm of agency."
"African","He who says what will I do will never lack what to do."
"African","He who waits for the moon waits for darkness."
"African","He who starts his work early enough is neither hit by the severe sun heat nor the burning sand."
"African","Him with a clean future has a clean past."
"African","He who takes a light to find a snake should start at his own feet."
"African","He who talks continuously, talks nonsense."
"African","He who talks forgets what he said but he who listens can't forget."
"African","He who talks incessantly, talks nonsense."
"African","He who talks to you while travelling at night is thanked in the morning."
"African","He who tries to shake a tree stump shakes only himself."
"African","He who solves a problem with a problem will always have a problem in waiting."
"African","If a child washes his hands he could eat with kings."
"African","Him with a bold head knows how to protect it through thorns."
"African","I pointed out the stars and moon to you, but all you saw was the tip of my finger."
"African","Ideas are worth a dime dozen, but people who put them into action are priceless."
"African","If a bachelor who uses firewood for cooking runs away in the morning to avoid removing the ash; he will have to deal with it when he comes back."
"African","If a bird bills the rock then it trusts its beck."
"African","I don't sow ground nuts when the monkey is watching."
"African","If a cat wants to look after your fish don't believe him."
"African","Hunt in every jungle, for there is wisdom and good hunting in all of them."
"African","If a dog bites you once it's his fault, but if it bites you again it's your fault."
"African","If a dog bites you, you don't attack it but you attack its owner."
"African","If a frog leaves the swamp for the mountains, it means it is in danger."
"African","If a man makes soup of his tears, ask him not for broth."
"African","If a man returns from a long journey and no one says welcome back to him he feels like one who has not arrived."
"African","Don't underestimate the wisdom of ancestors."
"African","If a bird does not recognise a tree, it will not rest on it."
"African","However hot the sun, it will never dry the sea."
"African","Him with is own knowledge know how to eat from it."
"African","Hold a true friend with both hands."
"African","Honest advice doesn't destroy true friendship."
"African","Hooting all right and sleeping all day, doesn't make an owl wise."
"African","Hope is a good thing and good things never die."
"African","I have learnt your language so I can damn you."
"African","How ever big a rat is, it can't threaten a cat."
"African","He who predicts or prophesise isn't the one who causes his predictions to take shape."
"African","However long the dry season takes a seasonal river will never forget where it used to pass."
"African","However long the night, the dawn will break."
"African","However loud an ant shouts from the ground, no one will hear it."
"African","Human blood is heavy; he who has shed it cannot run away."
"African","Hunger is felt by a slave, and hunger is felt by a king."
"African","Hunger makes the big fish come out of hiding in the great river."
"African","How come that when I lost my sheep and could not find it, I was questioned; but the hyena who was found with the sheepskin is not questioned."
"African","He who forgets his past is lost."
"African","He who reminds you or corrects you is better than he who slanders you."
"African","He who drinks wine without libation is a traitor to the gods."
"African","He who eats an egg foregoes a future meal of chicken soup."
"African","He who falls, teaches others a lesson."
"African","He who fears fire cannot be a leader."
"African","He who doesn't know you, will not value you."
"African","He who feels it, knows it."
"African","He who doesn't know where he is going doesn't know whether or when he will arrive."
"African","He who gets annoyed of darkness ends up knocking himself everywhere."
"African","He who guards his lips, guards his life."
"African","He who has brothers has more than riches can buy."
"African","He who has given up doesn't blame the one moving on."
"African","He who has got experience can milk a running cow."
"African","He who has no pond must not breed crocodiles."
"African","He who feeds the child must be allowed to lick his fingers."
"African","He who doesn't clean his mouth before breakfast always complains that the food is sour."
"African","If a mother steals with a child stripped in the back what do you expect of the child."
"African","He who crosses a bridge to paradise and blows it after him is going to hell."
"African","He who defects on the way finds flies on his way back."
"African","He who dies of over eating doesn't wither."
"African","He who does is work properly has been well advised."
"African","He who doesn't listen to advise from others goes to his parents in-law smeared with faeces."
"African","He who does not know is forgiven by God."
"African","He who has the choice has the pain."
"African","He who doesn't console the bereaved will never be mourned by others."
"African","He who doesn't feel jealousy is not in love."
"African","He who doesn't find is way back from the forest gets lost within it."
"African","He who doesn't know a grave's coldness, doesn't give the dead their respect."
"African","He who doesn't know how a snake smells shouldn't walk into the forest."
"African","He who doesn't know what kills can sit on fire."
"African","He who does not cultivate his field, will die of hunger."
"African","He who misleads you cannot buy you."
"African","He who judges others and never allows to be judged looses friends."
"African","He who knows that he has enough is rich."
"African","He who learns, teaches."
"African","He who lends out his door should be ready for the cold blowing wind."
"African","He who lies by the fireside knows how it burns."
"African","He who has not traveled widely thinks that his mother is the best cook."
"African","He who marries a beauty marries trouble."
"African","He who is too sure of himself and acts without thinking is heading for his downfall."
"African","He who moves with each day is better than another who waits for luck."
"African","He who never eats pumpkins with you, you prepare a few slices for him."
"African","He who never knows where is coming from will never know where he is going."
"African","He who never moves about appreciates only one's mother's cookery skills."
"African","He who pelts another with paddles asks for stones in return."
"African","He who cannot rest, cannot work; he who cannot let go, cannot hold on; he who cannot find footing, cannot go forward."
"African","He who loves the vase loves also what is inside."
"African","He who is drunk from wine can sober up, he who is drunk from wealth cannot."
"African","He who pursues a hatched bird teaches it how to fly."
"African","He who has the necessities has no shame."
"African","He who holds somebody on the ground is holding himself too."
"African","He who is always in a hurry to get things done he never gets it done right."
"African","He who is being carried does not realize how far the town is."
"African","He who is born a fool is never cured."
"African","He who isn't around is never beaten by the falling tree."
"African","He who is close to you knows more about you than he who is far away."
"African","He who is wise endeavours to learn how to understand the truth not less than that."
"African","He who is first to receive something forgets when his friend will receive their share."
"African","He who is grown up should respect and love others."
"African","He who is intelligent is taught."
"African","He who is not beaten by the sun or the rain, will eventually be beaten by the hunger."
"African","He who is not happy with the position of the sun should climb and change it."
"African","He who has people is richer than he who has money."
"African","He who is carried on another's back does not appreciate how far off the town is."
"African","Those whose palm-kernels were cracked for them by a benevolent spirit should not forget to be humble."
"African","The lion does not turn around when a small dog barks."
"African","Seeing is different than being told."
"African","To try and to fail is not laziness."
"African","The fool speaks, the wise man listens."
"African","The end of an ox is beef, and the end of a lie is grief."
"African","The egg shows the hen where to hatch."
"African","The fool sucks wisdom, as he porter sups, And cobblers grow fine speakers in their cups."
"African","The day the monkey is destined to die, all the trees get slippery."
"African","Return to old watering holes for more than water; friends and dreams are there to meet you."
"African","Send a boy where he wants to go and you see his best pace."
"African","Seeing is better than hearing."
"African","Two birds disputed about a kernel, when a third swooped down and carried it off."
"African","Whether the knife falls on the melon or the melon on the knife, the melon suffers."
"African","Quarrels end, but words once spoken never die."
"African","Smooth seas do not make skillful sailors."
"African","When the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch."
"African","When you live next to the cemetery, you cannot weep for everyone."
"African","One must talk little and listen much."
"African","You must judge a man by the work of his hands."
"African","You can tell ripe corn by its look."
"African","Wood already touched by fire is not hard to set alight."
"African","When there is no enemy within, the enemies outside cannot hurt you."
"African","When two elephants fight, it is the grass that gets trampled."
"African","We start as fools and become wise through experience."
"African","When the big tree falls, the goat eats its leaves."
"African","When elephants fight, it is the grass who suffers."
"African","When elephant steps on a trap, no more trap."
"African","When a needle falls into a deep well, many people will look into the well, but few will be ready to go down after it."
"African","When a king has good counselors, his reign is peaceful."
"African","When a fool is cursed, he thinks he is being praised."
"African","Whom a serpent has bitten a lizard alarms."
"African","It's a bad child who does not take advice."
"African","Don't set sail on someone else's star."
"African","Do not call to a dog with a whip in your hand."
"African","Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole."
"African","Ashes fly back into the face of him who throws them."
"African","A child's fingers are not scalded by a piece of hot yam which his mother puts into his palm."
"African","A stranger has big eyes but sees nothing."
"African","For tomorrow belongs to the people who prepare for it today."
"African","A proud heart can survive a general failure because such a failure does not prick its pride."
"African","Before shooting, one must aim."
"African","A fool may chance to put something into a wise man's head."
"African","A fool looks for dung where the cow never browsed."
"African","A cutting word is worse than a bowstring, a cut may heal, but the cut of the tongue does not."
"African","A comb becomes bad when it hurts you."
"African","A barber does not shave himself."
"African","A chick that will grow into a cock can be spotted the very day it hatches."
"African","Whoever tells the truth is chased out of nine villages."
"African","If you're not part of the solution, you're part of the problem."
"African","It is not work that kills, but worry."
"African","It is not with saying, ""Honey,"" ""Honey,"" that sweetness will come into the mouth."
"African","A stream cannot rise about its source."
"African","If your mouth turns into a knife, it will cut off your lips."
"African","He who is being carried does not realize how far the town is."
"African","If you're going home, you don't get wet."
"African","If you run after two hares you will catch neither."
"African","If you refuse to be made straight when you are green, you will not be made straight when you are dry."
"African","If you don't stand for something, you will fall for something."
"African","If you climb up a tree, you must climb down the same tree."
"African","If a child washes his hands he could eat with kings."
"African","He who talks incessantly, talks nonsense."
"African","If you don't work you shan't eat."
"African","He who is born a fool is never cured."
"African","It is not what you are called, but what you answer to."
"African","He who learns, teaches."
"African (Annang)","A razor may be sharper than an ax, but it cannot cut wood."
"African (Swahili)","The country rooster dows not crow in the town."
"African (Wolof)","When you see a palm tree, the palm tree has seen you."
"African (Wolof)","The partridge loves peas, but not those that go into the pot with it."
"African (Zulu)","Do not speak of a rhinoceros if there is no tree nearby."
"African American","The squirrel can beat the rabbit climbing a tree, but then the rabbit makes the best stew that sort of equalizes the thing."
"African American","Nothing can suffice a person except that which they have not."
"African American","Occasionally a man with a right smart education can't find his knife when it gets in the wrong pocket."
"African American","Old Satan couldn't get along without plenty of help."
"African American","Old used-to-do-it-this-way don't help none today."
"African American","Romance/ without finance/ don't stand a chance."
"African American","Rooster makes mo' racket dan de hen w'at lay de aig."
"African American","Talkin' 'bout fire doesn't boil the pot."
"African American","Tell me whom you love, and I'll tell you who you are."
"African American","Mothers raise their daughters and let their sons grow up."
"African American","The rainbow might be better lookin' if 'twasn't such a cheap show."
"African American","The very time I thought I was lost, my dungeon shook and my chains fell off."
"African American","When the bait is more than the fish, 'tis time to stop fishing."
"African American","We ain't what we want to be; we ain't what we gonna be; but thank God, we ain't what we was."
"African American","Wagon makes the loudest noise when it's goin' out empty."
"African American","The blacker the berry the sweeter the juice."
"African American","Hand plow can't make furrows by itself."
"African American","It takes a heap of licks to drive a nail in the dark."
"African American","Ain't no use askin' the cow to pour you a glass of milk."
"African American","All poor people ain't black/ and all black people ain't poor."
"African American","Death don't see no difference 'tween the big house and the cabin."
"African American","Jaybird don't rob his own nest."
"African American","Flies can't fall in a tight-closed pot."
"African American","The worm don't see nothing pretty in the robin's song."
"African American","Heaps of good cotton stocks get chopped up from association with the weeds."
"African American","I'm not going to lend you a stick to break my head with."
"African American","If you ask a Negro where he's been, he'll tell you where he's going."
"African American","If you want to keep something secret from black folks, put it between the covers of a book."
"African American","In the South they don't care how close you get, as long as you don't get too high. In the North, they don't care how high you get, as long as you don't get too close."
"African American","It takes a heap of licks to strike a nail in the dark."
"African American","Dog don't get mad when you say he's a dog."
"African American","It takes a heap of licks to strike a nail in the dark."
"African American","Old Satan couldn't get along without plenty of help."
"African Annang","A razor may be sharper than an ax, but it cannot cut wood."
"African Annang","A razor may be sharper than an ax, but it cannot cut wood."
"African Congo","Death does not sound a trumpet."
"African Congo","Little by little grow the bananas."
"African Congo","Sleep is the cousin of death."
"African Congo","Love is like a baby: it needs to be treated tenderly."
"African Congo","No matter how long the night, the day is sure to come."
"African Congo","A single bracelet does not jingle."
"African Congo","The friends of our friends are our friends."
"African Congo","Those who are absent are always wrong."
"African Congo","To love someone who does not love you, is like shaking a tree to make the dew drops fall."
"African Congo","Children are the reward of life."
"African Congo","You do not teach the paths of the forest to an old gorilla."
"African Congo","Man is like palm-wine: when young, sweet but without strength; in old age, strong but harsh."
"African Ovambo","A parasite cannot live alone."
"African Ovambo","If you do not have patience you cannot make beer."
"African Ovambo","There is not enough room for two elephants to sit in the same shade."
"African Ovambo","A parasite cannot live alone."
"African Ovambo","If you do not have patience you cannot make beer."
"African Ovambo","There is not enough room for two elephants to sit in the same shade."
"African Swahili","The country rooster dows not crow in the town."
"African Swahili","The country rooster dows not crow in the town."
"African Wolof","When you see a turtle on top of a fence post, you know he had some help."
"African Wolof","The partridge loves peas, but not those that go into the pot with it."
"African Wolof","When you see a palm tree, the palm tree has seen you."
"African Wolof","The partridge loves peas, but not those that go into the pot with it."
"African Wolof","When you see a palm tree, the palm tree has seen you."
"African Wolof","When you see a turtle on top of a fence post, you know he had some help."
"African Zulu","This, too, shall pass."
"African Zulu","This world is a harsh place, this world."
"African Zulu","Do not speak of a rhinoceros if there is no tree nearby."
"African Zulu","This world is a harsh place, this world. [Sulu, Lomhlaba Unzima, Lohmhlaba.]"
"African Zulu","This, too, shall pass."
"African Zulu","Do not speak of a rhinoceros if there is no tree nearby."
"African( Ovambo)","A parasite can not live alone"
"African( Ovambo)","If you do not have patience you cannot make beer."
"African( Ovambo)","There is not enough room for two elephants to sit in the same shade."
"Akan","Only birds of the same clan or species play together on the same tree."
"Akan","The tsetse-fly is perched on the tortoise's back in vain."
"Akan","You do not need a big stick to break a cock's head."
"Akan","You are the subject of he whose handcuffs you wear."
"Akan","Wisdom is not like money to be tied up and hidden."
"Akan","When you go to a town and you see the chief of the town is in handcuffs, you do not ask whether everything is alright in that town."
"Akan","When the hen steps on the feet of her chicken, she does not mean to kill them."
"Akan","Marriage is like a groundnut: you have to crack them to see what is inside."
"Akan","There is nothing wrong with learning from hindsight."
"Akan","A child who is to be successful is not to be reared exclusively on a bed of down."
"Akan","The rain wets the leopard's spots but does not wash them off."
"Akan","The puff adder that cannot fly has caught the hornbill that flies."
"Akan","The one who asks questions doesn't lose his way."
"Akan","The knot tied by a wiseman cannot be undone by a fool."
"Akan","The gun catridge-belt of Akowua has never been known to lack bullets."
"Akan","The good mother knows what her children will eat."
"Akan","If all the seeds that fall were to grow, then no one could follow the path under the trees."
"Akan","When a shield wears out, the framework still remains."
"Akan","The family is like the forest: if you are outside, it is dense; if you are inside, you see that each tree has its own position."
"Akan","Death's ladder is there for everyone to climb."
"Akan","If a horn deserves a jawbone, they attach one to it."
"Akan","Although the snake does not fly, it has caught the hornbill, whose home is in the sky."
"Akan","If an ass goes a-traveling, he'll not come home a horse."
"Akan","If you do not have sandals, find some, if you do not have gun powder, find some for a score to settle with you on the battle grounds."
"Akan","It is a fool whose own tomatoes are sold to him."
"Akan","One should never rub bottoms with a porcupine."
"Akan","The child is capable of splitting open the snail, not the tortoise."
"Akan","The clever bird is easily trapped in the leaves at the edges."
"Akan","The crocodile does not die under the water so that we can call the monkey to celebrate its funeral."
"Akan","Fowls will not spare a cockroach that falls in their midst."
"Akan","If an ass goes a-traveling, he'll not come home a horse."
"Akan","Marriage is like a groundnut: you have to crack them to see what is inside."
"Akan","One should never rub bottoms with a porcupine."
"Akan","The family is like the forest: if you are outside, it is dense; if you are inside, you see that each tree has its own position."
"Akan","The rain wets the leopard's spots but does not wash them off."
"Akan","If all the seeds that fall were to grow, then no one could follow the path under the trees."
"Albanian","He who hesitates, regrets."
"Albanian","Even the hen looks toward heaven when she drinks."
"Albanian","He who can read and write has four eyes."
"Albanian","Hard heads suffer much."
"Albanian","Fire, water and government know nothing of mercy."
"Albanian","Fire is a good slave, but a bad master."
"Albanian","Every guest hates the others, and the host hates them all."
"Albanian","Don't put golden buttons on a torn coat."
"Albanian","Don't put gold buttons on a torn coat."
"Albanian","Brotherly love for brotherly love, but cheese for money."
"Albanian","After shaking hands with a Greek, count your fingers."
"Albanian","A tailless dog cannot express his joy."
"Albanian","A day without work can yield a night without sleep."
"Albanian","If your neighbor is an early riser, you too will become one."
"Albanian","A dry bone is never licked."
"Albanian","When you have no companion, look to your walking stick."
"Albanian","The man who has eaten enough will never believe a hungry one."
"Albanian","The monk gets married to please his friend."
"Albanian","The stomach has no windows."
"Albanian","The sun at home warms better than the sun elsewhere."
"Albanian","The wolf loves the fog."
"Albanian","Those who know how to praise also know how to lie."
"Albanian","The fox will catch you with cunning, and the wolf with courage."
"Albanian","When you have given nothing, ask for nothing."
"Albanian","There was anguish before there was man."
"Albanian","Where a horse of a Turk passes the grass will not grow again."
"Albanian","Work like a slave and eat like a gentleman."
"Albanian","You cannot hunt with a tied dog."
"Albanian","You cannot turn blood into water."
"Albanian","He who leans against a big tree will always find shade."
"Albanian","If you fear God, you won't fear humans."
"Albanian","When a hundred men call a wise man a fool, then he becomes a fool."
"Albanian","It is easy to cut the tail of a dead wolf."
"Albanian","He who is not drunk on a Sunday is not worth a greeting on Monday."
"Albanian","When a Greek shakes your hand, count your fingers after."
"Albanian","The cat is a lion to the mouse."
"Albanian","In nature, there is no such thing as a lawn."
"Albanian","If you are in the house of a friend, bad times are soon forgotten."
"Albanian","In times of need a pig is called uncle."
"Albanian","If you have figs in your knapsack, everyone will want to be your friend."
"Albanian","Love is sometimes difficult but death even more so."
"Albanian","More lambs than sheep are slaughtered."
"Albanian","One eats figs whilst the other pays."
"Albanian","Patience is the key to paradise."
"Albanian","Sharp acids corrode their own containers."
"Albanian","She fries in her own grease."
"Albanian","Stroke the dog and he will mark you with his dirty paws."
"Albanian","In the eyes of the mouse the cat is a lion."
"Albanian","She fries in her own grease."
"Albanian","Sharp acids corrode their own containers."
"Algerian","The one whose belly isn't full of straw isn't afraid of fire"
"Algerian","The one who shows his fears ensures his salvation"
"Algerian","The only thing left in the wadi are its stones"
"Algerian","The soft tongue is sucked by the lioness"
"Algerian","The union of means triumphs over the lion"
"Algerian","There is an excess of familiarity at the root of all hostility"
"Algerian","They only fall asleep after having mutually taken an oath and then they betray each other"
"Algerian","Walls have ears"
"Algerian","We taught them to pray, they got to the Mosque before us"
"Algerian","When he was alive, he looked enviously at any dates. When he died, they hung a bunch for him"
"Algerian","When I think of the others's misfortunes, I forget mine"
"Algerian","You know who your friend and your enemy are during difficult moments"
"Algerian","Your eye is the only way you can judge things"
"Algerian","The hand which gives is better than the one which receives"
"Algerian","A sensible enemy is better than a narrow-minded friend."
"Algerian","Who got it, did get it; and who left it, did regret it."
"Algerian","A friend is someone who shares your happiness and your pains"
"Algerian","Cross the loud river but don't cross the silent one"
"Algerian","A believer can't be spiteful"
"Algerian","The crow wanted to mimic the pigeon's walk and forgot his own"
"Algerian","A secret for two is soon a secret for nobody."
"Algerian","A secret for two, soon a secret for nobody"
"Algerian","As we didn't say a word, he thought he could do anything he liked"
"Algerian","Do bad and remember, do good and forget."
"Algerian","One hand can't applaud"
"Algerian","Patience is the key to paradise"
"Algerian","Peace wins over wealth"
"Algerian","Since we didn't say anything, he thought he could do whatever he wanted to."
"Algerian","Speak kindly or refrain you from talking"
"Algerian","The absent has always got a justification"
"Algerian","Friendship, we call it friendship, but without sincerity"
"Altay","A long skirt wraps around the leg, a long tongue wraps around the head."
"Altay","The badger is not aware of its own blaze."
"Altay","One scabby sheep infects a thousand sheep."
"Altay","In a perch is no broth, in a foolish person is no wisdom."
"Altay","If you do not know how to fish, do not stir up the water."
"Altay","If horses neigh to one another, they become acquainted, if people talk to one another, they become acquainted."
"Altay","A wide garment does not tear, a proverb does not spoil."
"Altay","A big log is a shame to the fire, an evil person is a shame to the house."
"Altay","As the meat, so its broth."
"Amara","God does not ask to withstand more than is possible."
"Ambede","If you carry the egg basket do not dance."
"Ambede","If you want to lean on a tree, first make sure it can hold you."
"Ambede Gabon","If the needle doesn't pass, the thread doesn't follow."
"American","If you catch fish, you're a fisherman."
"American","If you have wit and learning, add to it wisdom and modesty."
"American","If you have no hand you can't make a fist."
"American","If you eat a live toad first thing in the morning, nothing worse will happen all day long."
"American","If you drive, don't drink; if you drink, don't drive."
"American","If you don't know what to do, don't do anything."
"American","If you don't have a plan for yourself, you'll be a part of someone else's."
"American","If you don't believe in cooperation, watch what happens to a wagon when one wheel comes off."
"American","If you desire many things, many things will be seem but a few."
"American","In great action, men show themselves as they ought to be, in small action as they are."
"American","If you cut down the trees you will find the wolf."
"American","If you make yourself a doormat, you will be stepped on."
"American","If you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen."
"American","If you can't say something good about someone, come sit right here by me."
"American","If you can't ride two horses at once, you shouldn't be in the circus."
"American","If you can't lick `em, join `em."
"American","If you can't lick 'em, join 'em."
"American","If you can't help, don't hinder."
"American","If you are always dwelling in trouble, change your address."
"American","If you dance, you must pay the piper."
"American","If you would enjoy its fruit, pluck not the blossom."
"American","In fair weather prepare for foul."
"American","In business partnerships and marriage partnerships, oh, the cheating that goes on."
"American","In a united family, hapiness springs up of itself."
"American","Imitation is the highest form of flattery."
"American","Ignorance is bliss."
"American","Ignorance is a form of environmental pollution."
"American","If your time ain't come not even a doctor can kill you."
"American","If you help the evil, you hurt the good."
"American","If you would enjoy the fruit, pluck not the flower."
"American","If you look back, you'll soon be going that way."
"American","If you want to know the value of money, try borrowing some."
"American","If you want to keep friends don't loan them any money."
"American","If you want something done and done well, do it yourself."
"American","If you want anything well done, do it yourself."
"American","If you take care of your character, your reputation will take care of itself."
"American","If you sing before breakfast, you'll cry before night."
"American","If you make yourself into a doormat, people will wipe their feet on you."
"American","If we blame others for our failures, then we should also give others credit for our successes."
"American","If you'd be beloved, make yourself amiable."
"American","Honour to whom honour is due."
"American","If you are a cock, crow; if a hen, lay eggs."
"American","Hunger finds no fault with moldy corn."
"American","Hunger find no fault with mouldy corn."
"American","Hunger fetches the wolf out of the woods."
"American","Human nature is the same all the world over."
"American","Hope of gain lessens pain."
"American","Hope is the nurse of misery."
"American","Hope is a good breakfast, but a poor supper."
"American","I'd rather be red than dead."
"American","Honour your father and your mother."
"American","I'd rather have them say ""There he goes"" than ""Here he lies.""."
"American","Honesty is praised and left to starve."
"American","Honesty is like an icicle; if once it melts that is the end of it."
"American","Homely in the cradle, pretty at the table."
"American","Home is the father's kingdom, the children's paradise, the mother's world."
"American","Home is not a structure, but something in your heart."
"American","Higher duties mean greater responsibilities."
"American","Here today, gone tomorrow."
"American","Hell is populated with the victims of harmless amusements."
"American","Hope for the best, but prepare for the worst."
"American","If passion drives, let reason hold the reins."
"American","In order to judge another's feelings, remember your own."
"American","If three people tell you that you are drunk, you better lie down."
"American","If the shoe fits, put it on."
"American","If the heart is right, the head cannot be very far wrong."
"American","If the goat would not jump around, she wouldn't break her leg."
"American","If the dog hadn't stopped to rest, he'd have caught the rabbit."
"American","If the defendant is silent the jury will think him guilty."
"American","If the coat fits, put it on."
"American","I am just as good as you are, and a damned sight better."
"American","If someone betrays you once, it is his fault. If he betrays you twice, it is your fault."
"American","If you act as good as you look, you'll never shame your family."
"American","If men could see the epitaphs their friends write they would believe they had gotten into the wrong grave."
"American","If luck is with you, even your ox will give birth to a calf."
"American","If it's wrong to eat the devil, it's wrong to drink his broth."
"American","If it were not for eating, the back might wear gold."
"American","If it looks like a duck, walks like a duck, and quacks like a duck, it's probably a duck."
"American","If he's your flatterer, he can't be your friend."
"American","If fools went not to market bad wares would not be sold."
"American","If a man is right, he cannot be too radical; if wrong, he cannot be too conservative."
"American","If the cap fits, wear it."
"American","It takes half your life to learn who your friends are and the other half to keep them."
"American","It's better to be a big frog in a little pond than a little frog in a big pond."
"American","It's as difficult to win love as to wrap salt in pine needles."
"American","It's an ill army when the devil carries the colours."
"American","It's all right to drink like a fish if you drink what a fish drinks."
"American","It's a poor frog who doesn't play with his own pond."
"American","It takes two to make a bargain."
"American","It takes three generation to make a gentleman."
"American","In God we trust; all others pay cash."
"American","It takes nine months to have a baby, no matter how many people you put on the job."
"American","It's easier to go down than up."
"American","It takes dough to have crust."
"American","It takes a thief to catch a thief."
"American","It takes a smart woman to be a fool."
"American","It takes a heap of licks to strike a nail in the dark."
"American","It requires more courage not to fight than to fight."
"American","It makes a difference if the pope is on your side."
"American","It is well that our faults are not written on our faces."
"American","It is the trapped animal that makes the most noise."
"American","It takes one to know one."
"American","Justice delayed is justice denied."
"American","Kindness is more binding than a loan."
"American","Kindle not a fire that you can't extinguish."
"American","Keeping from falling is better than helping up."
"American","Keep yourself from the opportunity and god will keep you from the sin."
"American","Keep your friendship in repair."
"American","Keep your foot on the mark."
"American","Keep your eyes wide open before marriage, half shut afterwards."
"American","Keep your chickens in your own backyard."
"American","It's better to tell your money where to go than to ask where it went."
"American","Keep not ill company lest you increase the number."
"American","It's dog's delight to bark and bite, but little children never."
"American","Judge men by their deeds, not be their creeds."
"American","Judge a Dutchman by what he means, not by what he says."
"American","It's safer to commend the dead than the living."
"American","It's not the gale but the set of the sail that determines the way you go."
"American","It's not every question that deserves an answer."
"American","It's more brave to live than to die."
"American","It's easier to lose faith than to find it again."
"American","It is one thing to get educated and another thing to keep educated."
"American","Keep the weekdays honest and it will be easy to keep the Sabbath holy."
"American","It costs something to be a Christian, but it costs more to be a sinner."
"American","It is the beautiful bird which gets caged."
"American","It is better to be alone than in bad company."
"American","It is better to be a live rabbit than a tiger."
"American","It is better to ask twice than to go wrong once."
"American","It is bad luck to fall out of a thirteenth story window on Friday."
"American","It is an ill thing to be deceived, but worse to deceive."
"American","It is an easy matter for a stingy man to get rich -- but what's the use?"
"American","It is all right to drink like a fish if you drink what a fish drinks."
"American","It is better to be right than in the majority."
"American","It does not always rain when a pig squeals."
"American","It is better to be safe than sorry."
"American","It all depends on whose ox is gored."
"American","Industry need not wish."
"American","Industry keeps the body healthy, . . . and the purse full."
"American","Industry is fortune's right hand and frugality her left."
"American","In this world, nothing is permanent except change."
"American","In the boy see the man."
"American","In spring a young man's fancy lightly turns to what the woman has been thinking all winter."
"American","In politics, a man must learn to rise above principle."
"American","It is a man's challenge to go as far as he can on the right road."
"American","It is easy for a man in health to preach patience to the sick."
"American","Hear the evidence before you pass sentence."
"American","It is not well for a man to pray cream and live skim milk."
"American","It is not the clothes that count, but the things the clothes cover."
"American","It is not often that a man's reputation outlasts his money."
"American","It is not easy to straighten in the oak the crook that grew in the sapling."
"American","It is not as bad to believe a lie as to tell one."
"American","It is good to have some friends both in heaven and in hell."
"American","It is easy to fool the young wolf."
"American","It is better to be lied about than to lie."
"American","It is easy to be brave from a safe distance."
"American","It is sometimes best to burn your bridges behind you."
"American","It is better to tell your money where to go than to ask where it went."
"American","It is better to sit with a wise man in prison than with a fool in paradise."
"American","It is better to pay and have a little left than to have much and be always in debt."
"American","It is better to know nothing than to half-know many things."
"American","It is better to keep peace than to make peace."
"American","It is better to keep a wolf out of the fold than to trust drawing his teeth and talons after he shall have entered."
"American","It is better to have less thunder in the mouth and more lightning in the hand."
"American","It is better to die young at home than to die old in a hospital."
"American","It is easy to despise what you can't get."
"American","Feather by feather a goose is plucked."
"American","Faith is the vision of the heart."
"American","Fall not out with a friend for a trifle."
"American","False friends are worse than open enemies."
"American","Falsehood is a nettle that stings those who meddle with it."
"American","Falsehood is the darkness of faith."
"American","Fame is longer than life."
"American","Fate can be taken by the horns, like a goat, and pushed in the right direction."
"American","Hell is full of good meanings, but heaven is full of good works."
"American","Fear no man, and do justice to all men."
"American","Fairest gems lie deepest."
"American","Feed a cold, starve a fever."
"American","Feed sparingly and defy the physician."
"American","Fences mean nothing to those who can fly."
"American","Few believe to err is human and to smack, divine."
"American","Few things are easy to the unwilling."
"American","Fidelity is a noble virtue, yet justice is nobler still."
"American","Figures don't lie, but sometimes liars figure."
"American","Fire and flax agree not."
"American","Fear is a fine spur; so is rage."
"American","Experience is a comb which fate gives to a man when his hair is all gone."
"American","From middle age on, everything of interest is either illegal, immoral or fattening."
"American","From little acorns mighty oaks do grow."
"American","From errors of others a wise man corrects his own."
"American","From beavers, bees should learn to mend their ways. A bee works; a beaver works and plays."
"American","Friendship is an empty word if it only works one way."
"American","Everything worthwhile has a fence around it, but there is always a gate and a key."
"American","Kissing a girl for the first time is like getting the first olive from a jar: after the first one, they come rolling out."
"American","Evil to him who evil does."
"American","Faith is that quality which enables us to believe what we know to be at least far out."
"American","Example can be better than precept."
"American","Faith begins where reason stops."
"American","Experience is a dear school, but fools learn in no other."
"American","Experience is the father of wisdom and memory the mother."
"American","Experience without learning is better than learning without experience."
"American","Fact can be stranger than fiction."
"American","Facts are better than theories."
"American","Fair and softly goes far in a day."
"American","Fair words butter no cabbage."
"American","First a daughter, then a son, and the family's well begun."
"American","Never assent merely to please."
"American","Fortune favours fools."
"American","Fire is a good servant but a bad master."
"American","Fools never prosper."
"American","Fools were made to multiply."
"American","For age and want save while you may, no morning sun lasts a whole day."
"American","For every evil under the sun there is a remedy or there is none."
"American","For every goose there is a gander."
"American","Force is no argument."
"American","Foresight is better than a night of terror."
"American","Fools make feasts and wise men eat them."
"American","Fortune can take away riches but not courage."
"American","Fools fall the hardest."
"American","Fortune is like price: if you can wait long enough, the price will fall."
"American","Fortune makes friends; misfortune tries them."
"American","Fortune never comes with both hands full."
"American","Fraud and cunning are the weapons of the weak."
"American","Free ships, free goods."
"American","Fret not for yourself because of evildoers."
"American","Fret today, regret tomorrow."
"American","Friendly is as friendly does."
"American","Forgive and regret much later."
"American","Folks like the truth that hits their neighbor."
"American","Gambling is the son of avarice and the father of despair."
"American","First build your house and then accommodate the furniture."
"American","First clean out your own backyard."
"American","First deserve and then desire."
"American","First endure, then pity, then embrace."
"American","First there, first served."
"American","Fish and visitors smell after three days."
"American","Fish or cut bait."
"American","Fools need advice most, but wise men only are the better for it."
"American","Flattery, like perfume, should be smelled, not swallowed."
"American","Fireflies shine only when in motion."
"American","Folks spend their health to acquire wealth and later spend their wealth in an effort to regain their health."
"American","Follow not truth too near the heels lest it dash out your teeth."
"American","Follow the wise few rather than the vulgar many."
"American","Fooled once shame on you, fooled twice shame on me."
"American","Fools and children should never look at unfinished work."
"American","Fools are never uneasy."
"American","Fools die young and look sickly."
"American","Fools enter where brave men fear to tread."
"American","Flattery butters no parsnips."
"American","He that fights and runs away may live to fight another day."
"American","He is dead that is faultless."
"American","He that swims in sin will sink in sorrow."
"American","He that shows a passion tells his enemy where he may hit him."
"American","He that pries into the clouds may be struck with a thunderbolt."
"American","He that marries for money will earn it."
"American","He that makes a fire of straw has much smoke but little warmth."
"American","He that lives on hope will die fasting."
"American","He that lives on hope has a slender diet."
"American","He that will eat the kernel must crack the nut."
"American","He that is angry is seldom at ease."
"American","He that would make a fool of himself will find many to help him."
"American","He that fears leaves must not come into a wood."
"American","He that falls in love with himself will have no rivals."
"American","He that can have patience can have what he will."
"American","He that accuses all convicts only one."
"American","He must have a long spoon who sups with the devil."
"American","He labours in vain who tries to please everybody."
"American","He knows not the law who knows not the reason thereof."
"American","From small beginnings come great things."
"American","He that lives carnally won't live eternally."
"American","He who is born a fool is never cured."
"American","Friends and mules fail us in hard places."
"American","He's no fool who parts with what he can't keep to get what he shall not lose."
"American","He who seeks equality should go to ---."
"American","He who never learns anything never forgets anything."
"American","He who lies down with dogs will rise with fleas."
"American","He who laughs last laughs best."
"American","He who laughs at others' woes finds few friends and many foes."
"American","He who judges others condemns himself."
"American","He that takes the devil into his boat must carry him over the sound."
"American","He who is no friend to the good cause is no friend of mine."
"American","He is a fool who cannot be angry but a wise man who will not."
"American","He who has no future loses his grip on the present."
"American","He who has crossed the flood knows how deep it is."
"American","He who drinks and walks away lives to drink another day."
"American","He who can take advice is sometimes superior to those who give it."
"American","He who boasts of his descent is like a potato: the best part is underground."
"American","He who associates with dogs learns to pant."
"American","He who asks more of a friend than he can bestow deserves to be refused."
"American","He travels fastest who travels alone."
"American","He who is to break his neck finds the stairs in the dark."
"American","Give every man your ear but few your voice."
"American","He is my friend that helps me, and not he that pities me."
"American","Good care prevents accidents."
"American","Good Americans, when they die, go to Paris."
"American","Gold is where you find it."
"American","Gold is the devil's fishhook."
"American","God promises a safe landing, but not a calm passage."
"American","God helps those who help themselves."
"American","Give the devil his due."
"American","Good fathers make good sons."
"American","Give me flowers while I live."
"American","Good fences make good neighbors."
"American","Getting what you go after is called success, but liking it while you are getting it is called happiness."
"American","Getting things done is largely a matter of getting things started."
"American","Get what you can, and what you get, hold; it's the stone that will turn all your lead into gold."
"American","Gentlemen prefer blonds -- but marry brunettes."
"American","Genius is one part inspiration and three parts perspiration."
"American","Gather rosebuds while you may."
"American","Garbage in, garbage out)."
"American","Hell and the courtroom are always open."
"American","Give some people everything you have and they still want the moon."
"American","Guard lest the eyes be bigger than the stomach."
"American","He is a fool that makes his doctor his heir."
"American","He burned his own blister; now let him sit on it."
"American","Having finished the meal, the company leaves."
"American","Have the courage not to adopt another's courage."
"American","Have fun while you live, because you are going to be dead a long time."
"American","Haste makes waste."
"American","Happiness multiplies as we divide it with others."
"American","Happiness is a form of courage."
"American","Good enough for Government work."
"American","Half an orange tastes as sweet as a whole one."
"American","From the cemetery no one is brought back."
"American","Great trees keep little ones down."
"American","Great events give scope for great virtues."
"American","Great estates may venture more; little boats must keep near shore."
"American","Great deeds are reserved for great souls."
"American","Good weight and measure, are heaven's treasure."
"American","Good luck beats early rising."
"American","Good listening does not mean sitting dumb."
"American","Good folks are scarce."
"American","Handsome poverty is no disgrace."
"American","The anvil fears no blows."
"American","The best fishing is in the deepest waters."
"American","The best chaperon a girl can have is to be in love with another fellow."
"American","The best advice I know in life is don't give too much."
"American","The bad workman blames his tools."
"American","The bad gardener quarrels with his rake."
"American","The baby who always gets carried will never learn to walk."
"American","The ass knows in whose face he brays."
"American","The devil can quote Scripture to his own advantage."
"American","The ardor of parental affection consumes the heart with its fire."
"American","The best way to get someone to stop digging his heels in is to dig out the sand around him."
"American","The aim is useless without the way."
"American","That which comes from the heart is always sincere."
"American","Thanks is poor pay on which to keep a family."
"American","Temper your enthusiasm with judgement."
"American","Talk is cheap but it takes money to buy whiskey."
"American","Take two and hit to right."
"American","Take the bitter with the sweet."
"American","Take opportunity by the forelock."
"American","The artist never dies."
"American","The cat may look at the queen."
"American","Necessity never made a good bargain."
"American","The deities of one age are the bywords of the next."
"American","The dead are soon forgotten."
"American","The daughter of a spry old woman makes a poor housekeeper."
"American","The customer's always right."
"American","The cuckold is the last that knows of it."
"American","The cow has forgotten she was once a calf."
"American","The child is the father of the man."
"American","The best laid plans of mice and men often go astray."
"American","The cemeteries are filled with people who thought the world couldn't get along without them."
"American","The best part of a book is not the thought it contains but the thought it suggests."
"American","The busy man has few idle visitors: to the boiling pot the flies come not."
"American","The bigger the tree, the harder she falls."
"American","The better the day, the better the deed."
"American","The best way to kill time is to work it to death."
"American","The best way to keep friends is not to give them away."
"American","The best way to have a friend is to be a friend."
"American","The best way to get something done is to do it yourself."
"American","Take care of the dimes and the dollars will take care of themselves."
"American","The chickens have come home to roost."
"American","Solid learning makes a man fit company for himself."
"American","Take each day as it comes."
"American","Speak when you are spoken to."
"American","Speak kind words and you will hear kind answers."
"American","Speak fair, think what you will."
"American","Spare at the brim, not at the bottom."
"American","Sometimes the remedy is worse than the disease."
"American","Some will, some don't, so what."
"American","Some folks speak from experience; others, from experience, don't speak."
"American","Stand up, cent, let the dollar sit down."
"American","Some are born to honor, and some have honor thrust upon them."
"American","Step on a crack break your mother's back."
"American","Smith and Wesson or a Colt always beat four aces."
"American","Small evils hatch quick."
"American","Slow help is no help."
"American","Slander not the dead."
"American","Six feet of earth makes all men equal."
"American","Sin concealed needs two forgivings."
"American","Silks and satins, scarlet and velvet, put out the kitchen fire."
"American","Silence is the best answer to the stupid."
"American","Some families are like potatoes -- all that's good of them is underground."
"American","Success is a ladder that cannot be climbed with your hands in your pockets."
"American","The devil is always at the elbow of an idle man."
"American","Take all you want, but eat all you take."
"American","Take a friend for what he does, a wife for what she has, and goods for what they are worth."
"American","Tact is the art of making a point without making an enemy."
"American","Sweep the dirt from in front of your own door, and don't worry about your neighbour's."
"American","Sweep before your own door before you sweep before others."
"American","Sweep around your own doorstep first."
"American","Suspicion may be no fault, but showing it may be a great one."
"American","Speed will get you nowhere if you are headed in the wrong direction."
"American","Success never needs an excuse."
"American","Take care of your pennies and your dollars will take care of your widow's next husband."
"American","Success has many parents, but failure is an orphan."
"American","Success has many fathers, but failure is an orphan."
"American","Study the past if you would divine the future."
"American","Strive though you fail."
"American","Strike while your employer has a big contract."
"American","Stopping at third base adds no more to the score than striking out."
"American","Still achieving, still pursuing."
"American","Sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me."
"American","Success ruins a fool."
"American","The man who flatters you is a liar: the greater the flattery, the bigger the liar."
"American","The most dangerous food is a wedding cake."
"American","The more you stir dirt, the worse it stinks."
"American","The more you eat, the more you want."
"American","The more sins you confess, the more books you will sell."
"American","The more responsibilities a man assumes, the more likely he is to meet them."
"American","The more arguments you win, the less friends you will have."
"American","The more acquaintances, the more danger."
"American","The devil always tends to his own business."
"American","The man who loves to argue is left without friends."
"American","The mouth of fools pours out foolishness."
"American","The man that blushes is not quite a brute."
"American","The love of evil is the root of all money."
"American","The loudest bell does not always have the sweetest tone."
"American","The longest mile is the last mile home."
"American","The less we know, the more we suspect."
"American","The intelligence of the average individual reaches its lowest ebb when he enters a railroad station."
"American","The higher you climb, the harder you may fall."
"American","The higher they fly, the harder they fall."
"American","The man who minds his own business generally has a good one."
"American","The opportunity of a lifetime is seldom so labeled."
"American","The road to the head lies through the heart."
"American","The road to ruin is kept in good repair, and the travellers pay the expense."
"American","The rich get richer, and the poor get babies."
"American","The receiver is as bad as the thief."
"American","The reason some people are stingy is also the reason they are rich."
"American","The real owners of the land are not yet born."
"American","The rain follows after the forest."
"American","The Pilgrim Fathers landed on the shores of America and fell on their knees; then they fell upon the aborigines."
"American","The most destructive criticism is indifference."
"American","The outward forms the inward man reveal - we guess the pulp before we cut the peel."
"American","The mountains are never so far apart but the animals find one another."
"American","The opera isn't over till the fat lady sings."
"American","The only thing we learn from new elections is we learned nothing from the old."
"American","The only thing a heated argument ever produced is coolness."
"American","The only sure thing about luck is that it's sure to change."
"American","The only difference between stumbling blocks and stepping stones is the way you use them."
"American","The older the fool, the harder he falls."
"American","The obvious choice is usually a quick regret."
"American","The happiest place in the world to live is within one's income."
"American","The passions are like fire and water: good servants but bad masters."
"American","The dog has returned to his vomit again, and the sow that was washed to her wallowing in the mire."
"American","The heart has eyes that the brain knows nothing of."
"American","The end of the thief is the gallows."
"American","The end crowns all."
"American","The easiest way to get a divorce is to be married."
"American","The early bird may catch the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese."
"American","The early bird gets the worm."
"American","The early bird catches the worm."
"American","The downward road is easy."
"American","The face is the index of the mind, but appearances are deceitful."
"American","The dog that minds not your whistle is good for nothing."
"American","The farmer feeds them all."
"American","The dog doesn't get bread every time he wags his tail."
"American","The distant fields look greener."
"American","The disgrace of the city is the fault of the citizens."
"American","The difference between adults and children is that adults don't ask questions."
"American","The dictionary is the only place where success comes before work."
"American","The devil takes care of his own."
"American","The devil protects his own."
"American","The devil never misses the bus."
"American","The doghouse is no place to keep a sausage."
"American","The fruit doesn't fall far from the tree."
"American","She who is a beauty is half married."
"American","The ground of liberty must be gained by inches."
"American","The greatest art is the art of life."
"American","The great man is he who does not lose his child's heart."
"American","The good lawyer knows the law, the clever one knows the judge."
"American","The golden rule of life is, make a beginning."
"American","The giver makes the gift precious."
"American","The generous can forget that they have given, but the grateful can never forget that they have received."
"American","The face is a mask; look behind it."
"American","The future belongs to those who prepare for it."
"American","The heart has arguments with which the understanding is unacquainted."
"American","The frost will bring the pig home."
"American","The frog does not drink up the pond in which he lives."
"American","The forest is the poor man's overcoat."
"American","The fool wanders; the wise man travels."
"American","The first hundred years are the hardest."
"American","The first attempt is the most difficult."
"American","The fire you kindle for your enemy often burns yourself more than him."
"American","The fates lead the willing man; an unwilling man they drag."
"American","The garment of peace never fades."
"American","Make love, not war."
"American","Man is the only animal who can be skinned twice."
"American","Man is like a banana: when he leaves the bunch, he gets skinned."
"American","Man is like a banana: when he leaves the bunch, he gets skinned."
"American","Man is greater than the tools he invents."
"American","Man changes often but improves seldom."
"American","Man cannot live by bread alone."
"American","Man can't live in this world alone."
"American","Silence is golden, speech is silver."
"American","Make new friends but keep the old."
"American","Mankind bestows more applause on her destroyer than on her benefactor."
"American","Make a loan and lose a friend."
"American","Make a garden or plant, and a man is happy for life."
"American","Lying rides upon debt's back."
"American","Lust never sleeps."
"American","Lucky men need no counsel."
"American","Love your neighbour, but do not pull down the fence."
"American","Love of dress is sure the very curse."
"American","Love many, trust few and always paddle your own canoe."
"American","Make your brain save your heels."
"American","Many words will not fill a bushel."
"American","Men seek less to be instructed than applauded."
"American","Men fear death as children do going in the dark."
"American","Men build houses; women build homes."
"American","Men are punished by their sins, not for them."
"American","Men are blind in their own cause."
"American","Men apt to promise are apt to forget."
"American","Measure twice before you cut once."
"American","Maternity is a matter of fact, paternity is a matter of opinion."
"American","Man's only real possession is his character."
"American","Marrying for love is risky, but god smiles on it."
"American","Manhood is quite a struggle, old age a regret."
"American","Many speak much who cannot speak well."
"American","Many have been ruined by buying good pennyworths."
"American","Many friends, few helpers."
"American","Many drops of water make an ocean."
"American","Many are called, but few are chosen."
"American","Many a good hanging prevents a bad marriage."
"American","Many a flower is born to blush unseen."
"American","Looks often deceive."
"American","Matches may be made in heaven, but they are sold down here."
"American","Leaves enough, but few grapes."
"American","Love enters man through his eyes, woman through her ears."
"American","Let them laugh that win."
"American","Let the sleeping dog lie."
"American","Let the big dog eat."
"American","Let justice be done though the heavens fall."
"American","Let him who gives nothing be silent, and him who receives speak."
"American","Let every tub stand on its own bottom."
"American","Let every day provide for itself and God send Sunday."
"American","Let's face the facts and get at the root of trouble."
"American","Less advice and more hands."
"American","Liars begin by imposing on others, but end by deceiving themselves."
"American","Leave well enough alone."
"American","Learn as you'd live forever; live as you'd die tomorrow."
"American","Laws too gentle are seldom obeyed; too severe, seldom executed."
"American","Laugh and show your ignorance."
"American","Laugh and grow fat."
"American","Ladies in slacks should not turn their backs."
"American","Knowledge is the sister of folly."
"American","Knowledge is proud that he knows so much; wisdom is humble that he knows no more."
"American","Less said, more done."
"American","Little folks are fond of talking about what great folks do."
"American","Money talks -- everything else walks."
"American","Look out for others and god will look out for you."
"American","Long runs the fox, but at last is caught."
"American","Lock your door and keep your neighbours honest."
"American","Lock the stable door before the steed is stolen."
"American","Living in worry invites death in a hurry."
"American","Live your own life, for you die your own death."
"American","Little strokes fell great oaks."
"American","Let your actions be equal to your promises."
"American","Little pitchers have big ears."
"American","Loose lips sink ships."
"American","Little brooks make great rivers."
"American","Listen or thy tongue will keep thee deaf."
"American","Liquor never hurt a cheap man."
"American","Lime and lime without manure makes the farmer rich and the son poor."
"American","Like a fence, character cannot be strengthened by whitewash."
"American","Life is not a cup to be drained, but a measure to be filled."
"American","Life is a matter of dog eat dog."
"American","Life is a comedy to those who think, a tragedy to those who feel."
"American","Little said is soonest mended."
"American","Promise little but with respect. TK."
"American","Prayer is a wish turned upward."
"American","Quiet people, whether wise or dull, get the benefit of the doubt."
"American","Quarreling dogs come halting home."
"American","Putting the cart before the horse."
"American","Put your trust in God, and keep your powder dry."
"American","Put your money where your mouth is."
"American","Put up or shut up."
"American","Put first things first."
"American","Rather than run into debt, wear your old coat."
"American","Promises fill no sack."
"American","Reading makes a full man, meditation a profound man, discourse a clear man."
"American","Promise little but do much."
"American","Profit by the folly of others."
"American","Professionals built the 'Titanic,' amateurs built the ark."
"American","Pride that dines on vanity sups on contempt."
"American","Pride often apes humility."
"American","Pride is the last vice a good man gets clear of."
"American","Pride is said to be the last vice the good man gets clear of."
"American","Men shut their doors against the setting sun."
"American","Put cream and sugar on a fly and it tastes very much like a black raspberry."
"American","Roots of evil bear bitter fruits."
"American","Knowledge conquered by labour becomes a possession."
"American","Set a frog on a golden stool, away it hops to reach the pool."
"American","Send a fool to the market, and a fool he'll return."
"American","Self-help is the best help."
"American","Self-conceit may lead to self-destruction."
"American","Seek not to be consoled but to console."
"American","See the weakest fruit drops earliest to the ground."
"American","Scratch my back and I'll scratch yours."
"American","Ragged colts make fine horses."
"American","Saying and doing are two different things."
"American","Praise the Lord and pass the ammunition."
"American","Rise early, live soberly, and apply yourself with industry."
"American","Reputation is what you are in the light; character is what you are in the dark."
"American","Republicans will do anything for the poor except get off their backs."
"American","Religion is the best armor in the world, but the worst cloak."
"American","Reason succeeds where force fails."
"American","Reality never surpasses imagination."
"American","Real happiness is found not in doing the things you like to do, but in liking the things you have to do."
"American","Real friendship is a slow grower."
"American","Scandal will rub out like dirt when it is dry."
"American","Neither a borrower nor a lender be."
"American","Prayer is food for the soul."
"American","Never get in a battle of wits without ammunition."
"American","Never drop the friends you made on the way up. You may need them on the way down."
"American","Never do evil hoping that good will come of it."
"American","Never criticize a man until you've walked a mile in his moccasins."
"American","Never complain. never explain."
"American","Never borrow, never lend if you wish to keep a friend."
"American","Never believe the impossible."
"American","Never let the same dog bite you twice."
"American","Don't jump from the frying pan into the fire."
"American","Never let your education interfere with your intelligence."
"American","Everything is not all peaches and cream."
"American","Naught's a naught and figger's a figger - all for the white man and none for the nigger."
"American","My son's my son till he gets him a wife; my daughter's my daughter all of her life."
"American","Most men get as good a wife as they deserve, and that isn't much."
"American","More flies are caught with honey than with molasses."
"American","More die of food than famine."
"American","More corn grows in crooked rows."
"American","Sheep-killing dogs are vicious."
"American","Never be content with your lot. Try for a lot more."
"American","Perhaps no one has a finer command of a language than he who keeps his mouth shut."
"American","Praise makes a bad man worse."
"American","Practice what you preach."
"American","Poverty with security is better than plenty in the midst of fear and uncertainty."
"American","Possession is nine-tenths of the game."
"American","Politics makes strange bedfellows."
"American","Poets are born, not made."
"American","Plough your furrows deep while sluggards sleep, and you shall have corn to sell and to keep."
"American","Philosophy means being able to explain why you are happy when you are poor."
"American","Never judge by first impressions."
"American","Perseverance is failing nineteen times and succeeding the twentieth."
"American","Men that have much business must have much pardon."
"American","Pay your debts or lose your friends."
"American","Patience wears out stones."
"American","Pain is forgotten where gain comes."
"American","Paddle together, bail, paddle; paddle, bail; paddle towards the land."
"American","Outward forms the inward man reveals."
"American","Never say die."
"American","Never quarrel with one's bread and butter."
"American","Never miss a good chance to shut up."
"American","Persistence will accomplish more than force."
"American","A shady lane breeds mud."
"American","A swift eater, a swift worker."
"American","A sure sign of age is loneliness."
"American","A stout heart crushes some ill luck."
"American","A smile is worth a thousand words."
"American","A smart coat is a good letter of introduction."
"American","A small debt makes a debtor, a heavy one an enemy."
"American","A slip of the foot and you may soon recover, but a slip of the tongue you may never get over."
"American","Action without thought is like shooting without aim."
"American","A single fact is worth a shipload of argument."
"American","A tree never hits an automobile except in self defense."
"American","A rotten egg can't be spoiled."
"American","A rod for a school."
"American","A ripple of laughter is worth a flood of tears."
"American","A rich man is happy while he is alive but sorry when he dies."
"American","A reconciled friend is a double enemy."
"American","A rather sure way to be cheated is to think one's self more clever than other people."
"American","A rabbit is never caught twice in the same place."
"American","A proof of faith is obedience."
"American","A single penny fairly got is worth a thousand that are not."
"American","Ability is the poor man's wealth."
"American","A joy that's shared is a joy made double."
"American","Action is the proper fruit of knowledge."
"American","Accidents will happen in the best of families."
"American","Accident is the mother of invention."
"American","Abuse is like a god that destroys his master."
"American","Abundance, like want, ruins many."
"American","Absence kills a little love but makes the big ones grow."
"American","Absence cools moderate passions but inflames violent ones."
"American","A thimbleful of experience is worth a tubful of knowledge."
"American","Ability will enable a man to get to the top, but character will keep him from falling."
"American","A thorn of experience is worth a wilderness of advice."
"American","A woman can't drive her husband, but she can lead him."
"American","A wise man's day is worth a fool's life."
"American","A wise man learns by the experiences of others; an ordinary man learns by his own experience; a fool learns by nobody's experiences."
"American","A wise duck takes care of its bill."
"American","A whistling girl and a crowing hen never came to a good end."
"American","A whistling girl and a cackling hen come to no good end."
"American","A true wife is her husband's flower of beauty."
"American","A piece of churchyard fits everybody."
"American","Above all nations is humanity."
"American","A little help is worth a lot of pity."
"American","A poor man is always behind."
"American","A man is known by his friends."
"American","A man is as big as the things that made him mad."
"American","A man in passion rides a mad horse."
"American","A man chases a woman until she catches him."
"American","A man can't do more than he can do. What says Don Ferdinando?"
"American","A man can die just once."
"American","A malignant sore throat is a danger; a malignant throat not sore is worse."
"American","A man never becomes an orator if he has something to say."
"American","A live dog is better than a dead lion."
"American","A man takes a drink and then the drink takes the man."
"American","A little doubt saves many a mistake."
"American","A little courtesy will go a long way."
"American","A little bit of powder and a little bit of paint make a woman look like what she ain't."
"American","A light cinch is best."
"American","A life of leisure and a life of laziness are different things."
"American","A lean agreement is better than a fat judgment."
"American","A lady is a woman who makes it easy for a man to be a gentleman."
"American","Don't kill the goose that lays the golden egg."
"American","A long life may not be good enough, but a good life is long enough."
"American","A mockingbird has no voice of his own."
"American","Admiration is the daughter of ignorance."
"American","A picture is worth a thousand words."
"American","A physician is also a man who pours special drugs into lots of bodies he rarely loves."
"American","A person who talks about his inferiors hasn't any."
"American","A penny saved is a penny earned."
"American","A pebble and a diamond are alike to a blind man."
"American","A nickel will get you on the subway, but garlic will get you a seat."
"American","A new broom sweeps clean, but an old one scrapes better."
"American","A man knows his companions in a long journey and a small inn."
"American","A mother's heart is a child's schoolroom."
"American","A place for everything and everything in its place."
"American","A miss is as good as a mile."
"American","A mill cannot grind with water that is past."
"American","A man's dreams are his own."
"American","A man without ambition is like a woman without looks."
"American","A man without a smiling face must not open a shop."
"American","A man who is his own doctor has a fool for his patient."
"American","A man who has both feet planted firmly in the air can be safely called a liberal."
"American","A man that flatters his neighbour spreads a net for his feet."
"American","A neglected duty may returns tomorrow with seven others at its back."
"American","An empty can makes a lot of noise."
"American","An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of wit."
"American","An open gate lets stock out."
"American","An old friend wears well."
"American","An old dog will learn no tricks."
"American","An old dog does not bark for nothing."
"American","An ignorant consent is no consent."
"American","An idle brain is the devil's workshop."
"American","Action is worry's worst enemy."
"American","An empty sack won't stand alone."
"American","Anger dies quickly in a good man."
"American","An egg today is worth a hen tomorrow."
"American","An eel held by the tail is not yet caught."
"American","An educated fool is dangerous."
"American","An ant may work its heart out, but it can't make money."
"American","An American will go to hell for a bag of coffee."
"American","An adult is only one who has ceased to grow vertically and started to grow horizontally."
"American","Ambition is putting a ladder against the sky."
"American","Ambition is like hunting for whales - sometimes you lose them."
"American","An honest citizen is an exile in his own country."
"American","Apprehension of evil is worse than the evil itself."
"American","Authority without wisdom is like a heavy axe without an edge."
"American","Attitudes don't prove anyhing."
"American","At the end of the work, you may judge the workman."
"American","At the center of climb is ""I"""
"American","Ashes to ashes, dust to dust, if the Lord doesn't get you, the devil must."
"American","As the old cock crows, the young cock learns."
"American","As the baker, so the buns; as the father, so the sons."
"American","As Maine goes, so goes the nation."
"American","An ounce of favor goes farther than a pound of justice."
"American","Arrogance is a kingdom without a crown."
"American","An ounce of proof is worth a ton of assertions."
"American","Appearances can be deceiving."
"American","Appearances aren't everything."
"American","Anytime means no time."
"American","Anyone can start a rumor, but none can stop one."
"American","Any port in a storm."
"American","Any excuse will serve a tyrant."
"American","Answer a fool according to his folly."
"American","Always count the cost."
"American","Art is the right hand of nature."
"American","Advice, when most needed, is least heeded."
"American","Always shut the gate after the horse is out."
"American","Age before beauty; pearls before swine."
"American","Age and marriage tame man and beast."
"American","After us the deluge."
"American","After dinner sit awhile; after supper walk a mile."
"American","After all is said and done, more is said than done."
"American","After a rich man gets rich, his next ambition is to get richer."
"American","Afflictions are the good mans' treasure - but he'd rather buy it than bear it."
"American","Age lasts; youth devours."
"American","Advisers get away with it. They never have to pay the penalty for their advice."
"American","Air castles are good; now put foundations under them."
"American","Advice, like water, takes the form of the vessel which it is poured into."
"American","Advice to all, security for none."
"American","Advice is least heeded when most needed."
"American","Adversity is the stuff that shows whether you are what you thought you were."
"American","Adversity has no friends."
"American","Adversity flatters no man."
"American","Adversity does best discover virtue."
"American","Admitting error clears the score and proves you wiser than before."
"American","Affectation is a greater enemy to the face than smallpox."
"American","All men are not cast in the same mold."
"American","A human learns how to talk early, but how to keep silent late."
"American","Always a valley before a hill."
"American","All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy."
"American","All things were once impossible."
"American","All things come to an end."
"American","All things are easy to industry, all things difficult to sloth."
"American","All the art lies in making the best of a bad market."
"American","All that shines is not silver."
"American","Age gives good advice when it is no longer able to give a bad example."
"American","All men must die."
"American","Always put your best foot forward."
"American","All men are fools, but all fools are not men."
"American","All is fair in love and golf."
"American","All gardeners know better than other gardeners."
"American","All complain for want of memory, but none for want of judgement."
"American","All asses do not go on four feet."
"American","All are not hunters that blow the horn."
"American","All are architects of fate working in these walls of time."
"American","Alcohol will preserve anything but a secret."
"American","All men think their enemies ill men."
"American","None are deceived but they that confide."
"American","No garden without its weeds."
"American","No matter how bad a child is, he is still good for a tax deduction."
"American","No matter how you slice it, it's still baloney."
"American","No one can scatter his fire indefinitely."
"American","No one else will do it for you."
"American","No risk, no gain."
"American","No river can return to its source, yet all rivers must have a beginning."
"American","A bird is known by his note and a man by his talk."
"American","Nobody has ever bet enough on a winning horse."
"American","No ear is so deaf as one which wishes not to hear."
"American","None are so blind as those who refuse to see."
"American","None but the wise man can employ leisure well."
"American","Not everything forbidden is sweet."
"American","Not he who has many ideas but he who has one conviction may become a great man."
"American","Nothing is more durable than a hog's snout."
"American","Nothing ventured, nothing gained."
"American","Of two evils, it is always best to vote for the least hypocritical."
"American","Of two evils, it is always best to vote for the least hypocritical."
"American","No rogue like the godly rogue."
"American","Never trouble trouble until trouble troubles you."
"American","A joyous evening often leads to a sorrowful morning."
"American","A beautiful face is a letter of recommendation."
"American","A bad man in Zion City is a good man in Chicago."
"American","A bad broom leaves a dirty room."
"American","A babe is a mother's anchor; she cannot swing from her moorings."
"American","'tis the taste that tells the tale."
"American","Never stir the fire with a sword."
"American","Never swap horses crossing a stream."
"American","No friendship can survive the gift of gold."
"American","Never trouble trouble till trouble troubles you."
"American","No friend is like an old friend."
"American","Never trust a man who doesn't trust others."
"American","Never try to prove what nobody doubts."
"American","Never underestimate an enemy."
"American","Never venture out of your depth till you can swim."
"American","New churches and new bars are seldom empty."
"American","Nice guys finish last."
"American","Night brings the cows home."
"American","Old brag is a good dog, but hold fast is better."
"American","Never think of the future; it comes soon enough."
"American","Our crosses are hewn from different trees."
"American","Of your enemies say nothing."
"American","One tree can make a million matches, and one match can destroy a million trees."
"American","One who cannot respect himself cannot respect another."
"American","Only a fool argues with the cook."
"American","Only fools and horses work."
"American","Only live fish swim up stream."
"American","Only those are fit to live who are not afraid to die."
"American","Opportunities, like eggs, come one at a time."
"American","One seldom meets a lonely lie."
"American","Our bread today is better than a hundred in the air."
"American","One rotten apple can spoil a lot of good ones."
"American","Our generosity should never exceed our abilities."
"American","Our greatest deeds we do unknowingly."
"American","Ignorance is bliss."
"American","If you can't lick 'em, join 'em."
"American","If you can't lick 'em, join 'em."
"American","Good fences make good neighbors."
"American","Good fathers make good sons."
"American","Fish or cut bait."
"American","Other people's burdens killed the ass."
"American","One evil breeds another."
"American","A book is like a garden carried in the pocket."
"American","Old fishermen never die, they just smell that way."
"American","Old foxes are not easily caught."
"American","Old friends are the best, but new ones are the most fun."
"American","Old shoes wear best."
"American","On an unknown path every foot is slow."
"American","Once bitten, twice shy."
"American","One at a time is good fishing; two at a time is making a hog of yourself."
"American","One should eat to live, not live to eat."
"American","One drink can lead to one's downfall."
"American","Old age is ripeness."
"American","One eyewitness could be better than ten hearsays."
"American","One foot is better than two crutches."
"American","One half the troubles in this world can be traced to saying 'yes' too quick or saying 'no' not soon enough."
"American","One man with courage is a majority."
"American","One man's death is another man's bread."
"American","One man's folly is another man's fortune."
"American","One may get up late if one has the name of getting up early."
"American","One of the greatest labor-saving inventions of today is tomorrow."
"American","One clean sheet will not soil another."
"American","A foolish man despises his mother."
"American","A genius does not shout his wisdom from the housetops."
"American","A gem is not polished without rubbing, nor is a man perfect without trials."
"American","A full ear of corn will bend its head; an empty ear will stand upright."
"American","A friend's envy is worse than an enemy's hatred."
"American","A friend won with a feather can be lost with a straw."
"American","A friend is easier lost than found."
"American","A friend at hand is better than a relative at a distance."
"American","A benevolent man should allow a few faults in himself to keeps his friends in countenance."
"American","A forced kindness deserves no thanks."
"American","A girl with cotton stockings never sees a mouse."
"American","A fool's name is seen in many places."
"American","A fool's mouth is his destruction."
"American","A fool talks with his ears stuffed up."
"American","A fool talks most when he has the least to say."
"American","A fool should never see unfinished work."
"American","A fool might be counted wise if he kept his mouth shut."
"American","A fool is like other men as long as he is silent."
"American","A fool has few friends."
"American","A fox does not smell his own stench."
"American","A good reputation stands still; a bad one runs."
"American","A house without books is like a room without windows."
"American","A house is not a home."
"American","A house divided against itself cannot stand."
"American","A harvest of peace is produced from a seed of contentment."
"American","A guilty dog always barks."
"American","A great talker may be no fool, but he is one who relies on him."
"American","A great fortune is a great servitude."
"American","A gracious woman obtains honor, and strong men obtain riches."
"American","A gentle disposition is like an unruffled stream."
"American","A good son makes a good husband."
"American","A gift is better than a promise."
"American","A good remedy for anger is delay."
"American","A good garden always has weeds."
"American","A good friend is someone who will bail you out of jail, but your best friend is the one sitting next to you saying ""that was fucking awesome""."
"American","A good example is the best sermon."
"American","A good dog deserves a good bone."
"American","A good doctor treats both the patient and the disease."
"American","A good cause finds weapons to defend it."
"American","A flow will have an ebb."
"American","A good surgeon must have an eagle's eye, a lion's heart, and a lady's hand."
"American","A child and a fool imagine twenty shillings and twenty years can never be spent."
"American","A fool can ask more questions in a minute than a wise man can answer in an hour."
"American","A diamond on a dunghill is a precious diamond still."
"American","A diamond daughter turns to glass as a wife."
"American","A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple."
"American","A dead man feels no cold."
"American","A dead enemy is as good as a cold friend."
"American","A crooked cornstalk can have a straight ear."
"American","A contented mind is a continual feast."
"American","A dirty fire never made a clean weld."
"American","A clear conscience is a coat of mail."
"American","A dirty floor means a busy stove."
"American","A cat has nine lives; for three he plays, for three he strays, and for the last three he stays."
"American","A carpenter is known by his chips."
"American","A calamity is often a blessing in disguise."
"American","A cackling hen doesn't always lay."
"American","A burnt child dreads the fire."
"American","A brother may not be a friend . . . ."
"American","A boy is better unborn than untaught."
"American","A bow too much bent will break."
"American","A clear conscience is a good pillow."
"American","A drunk man will sober up, but a damn fool never."
"American","Bad actions lead to worse reactions."
"American","A flow of words is no proof of being easy enough."
"American","A field becomes exhausted by constant tillage."
"American","A fellow can do anything if he lists."
"American","A favor to come is better than a hundred received."
"American","A fault confessed is half-redressed."
"American","A fault confessed is half redressed."
"American","A farmer on his knees is higher than a gentleman on his legs."
"American","A diplomat is a man who always remembers a woman's birthday but never her age."
"American","A duck won't bite you."
"American","A fool and his words are soon parted."
"American","A drowning man grabs at a straw."
"American","A dose of adversity is often as needful as a dose of medicine."
"American","A donkey is but a donkey though laden with gold."
"American","A dog that will bring a bone will take one away."
"American","A dog returns to where he has been fed."
"American","A dog is a man's best friend."
"American","A divided man makes an unhappy spirit."
"American","A disease known is half cured."
"American","A fair face may hide a foul heart."
"American","Don't burn the candle at both ends."
"American","Don't cry over spilt milk."
"American","Don't cry over spilled milk."
"American","Don't count your chickens before they are hatched."
"American","Don't close the barn door after the horse runs away."
"American","Don't clean your fish before you catch it."
"American","Don't change horses while crossing a stream."
"American","Don't cast your pearls before swine."
"American","Don't mistake chicken dung for an egg."
"American","Don't buy a cow to get a glass of milk."
"American","Don't do to others what you would not have done to you."
"American","Don't bite the hand that feeds you."
"American","Don't believe your enemy even when he's telling the truth."
"American","Don't ask a man for a favour before he has had his lunch."
"American","Don't allow the grass to grow on the path of friendship."
"American","Dogs delight to bark and bite for God has made them so."
"American","Doctor's faults are covered with earth, and rich men's with money."
"American","Do what you ought, come what may."
"American","Do what you do carefully."
"American","Don't care lost his corn patch."
"American","Don't judge any man until you have walked two moons in his moccasins."
"American","Avoid all bribes."
"American","Don't measure your neighbor's honesty by your own."
"American","Don't marry without love, but don't love without reason."
"American","Don't marry a girl who wants strawberries in January."
"American","Don't make excuses, make good."
"American","Don't make a mountain out of a molehill."
"American","Don't knock at a dead man's door and expect an answer."
"American","The saddest dog sometimes wags its tail."
"American","Don't cry till you are out of the wood."
"American","The longest day will come to an end."
"American","Don't cut off your nose to spite your face."
"American","Don't judge a book by its cover."
"American","Don't ignore the small things -- the kite flies because of its tail."
"American","Don't hide your light under a bushel."
"American","Don't fire until you see the white of his eye."
"American","Don't fan the flame that supports the fire."
"American","Don't expect. Inspect."
"American","Don't drown yourself to save a drowning man."
"American","Do not trust flatterers."
"American","Don't kick a dog when he is down."
"American","Desperate evils require desperate remedies."
"American","Do unto others as you would have them do unto you. Do as you would be done by."
"American","Diligence is the mistress of success."
"American","Diligence brings delight."
"American","Dignity is one thing that can't be preserved in alcohol."
"American","Dignity does not consist in a silk dress."
"American","Dig the well before you are thirsty."
"American","Difficulties relate only to necessity."
"American","Different strokes for different folks."
"American","Dime is money, as the Dutchman says."
"American","Destiny leads the willing but drags the unwilling."
"American","Diplomacy is the art of letting someone else have your way."
"American","Despair is the conclusion of fools."
"American","Demonstration is the best mode of instruction."
"American","Democracy is better than tyranny."
"American","Delays increase desires and sometimes extinguish them."
"American","Delays can be dangerous."
"American","Defeat isn't bitter if you don't swallow it."
"American","Deep calls unto deep."
"American","Deeds speak louder than words."
"American","Diamonds come in small packages."
"American","Distance is the best remedy against an evil-disposed man."
"American","Don't mortgage the future for the present."
"American","Do not put your foot further than you can draw it back again."
"American","Do not look for wrong and evil."
"American","Do not boast of a thing until it is done."
"American","Do it or dye!"
"American","Do as well as you look."
"American","Do a good deed every day."
"American","Distrust and caution are the parents of security."
"American","Diligence is the mother of good luck."
"American","Distance plants enchantment."
"American","Do unto others as others do unto you."
"American","Disputing and borrowing cause grief and sorrowing."
"American","Diseases are the tax on pleasures."
"American","Discouragement is the devil's most valuable tool."
"American","Disappointment hurts more than pain."
"American","Dirty hands make clean money."
"American","Dirt is dirtiest upon the fairest spot."
"American","Dirt is dirtiest upon clean white linen."
"American","Diplomacy is to do and say the nastiest thing in the nicest way."
"American","Distrust a prairie-dog and fix it."
"American","Envy is destroyed by true friendship."
"American","Every age wants its playthings."
"American","Even an ass will not fall twice in the same quick sand."
"American","Even an ass loves to hear himself bray."
"American","Even a dog knows the difference between being stumbled over and being kicked."
"American","Even a child makes himself known by his doings."
"American","Error can't be defended by error."
"American","Equals make the best friends."
"American","Don't meddle in others' affairs unless you want your own nose scraped a little."
"American","Envy is left-handed praise."
"American","Every dog thinks her puppies are the cutest."
"American","Envy is blind."
"American","Envy is a kind of praise."
"American","Envy doesn't enter an empty house."
"American","Enough is enough and sometimes plenty."
"American","Empty dishes rattle loudly."
"American","Eleven don't make a dozen."
"American","Eggs cannot be unscrambled."
"American","Eggs can't teach the hen."
"American","Equality begins in the grave."
"American","Every man hath his hobby-horse."
"American","Everything does not fall that totters."
"American","Everyone prefers his own."
"American","Everyone knows where his shoe pinches."
"American","Everyone has his master."
"American","Everyone for himself."
"American","Every why has a wherefore."
"American","Every time you forgive a man you weaken him and strengthen yourself."
"American","Every man's your enemy till he proves your friend."
"American","Every animal knows more than you do."
"American","Every man is a volume if you know how to read him."
"American","Every doctor thinks his pills the best."
"American","Every man hath a fool in his sleeve."
"American","Every man has one black patch, and some have two."
"American","Every man has a fool up his sleeve."
"American","Every family has at least one black sheep."
"American","Every family has a goodness of mercy."
"American","Every failure teaches a man something, if he will learn."
"American","Every door may be shut but death's door."
"American","Education doesn't come by bumping your head against the school house."
"American","Every man is occasionally what he ought to be perpetually."
"American","Don't throw out your dirty water until you get in fresh."
"American","Education is the best provision for old age."
"American","Dreams give wings to fools."
"American","Dreams are wishes your heart makes."
"American","Dreams are what you hope for; reality is what you plan for."
"American","Doubts --- helped a man to live, to grow, or to build."
"American","Doubt whom you will, but never doubt yourself."
"American","Don't value a gem by what it is set in."
"American","Don't use a lot where a little will do."
"American","Drink like hell and be happy."
"American","Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater."
"American","Drive your business or it will drive you."
"American","Don't throw out the baby with the bath water."
"American","Don't throw dirt into the well that gives you water."
"American","Don't throw away your dirty water until you get clean."
"American","Don't take any wooden nickels."
"American","Don't swing on my gate if you don't like it."
"American","Don't start economizing when you are down to your last dollar."
"American","Don't put the fox to guard the henhouse."
"American","Don't put all your eggs in one basket."
"American","Don't upset the apple cart."
"American","Early childhood should be as happy and carefree as you can make it."
"American","Deceit is a lie which wears a smile."
"American","Eavesdroppers never hear any good of themselves."
"American","Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow your wife may come home."
"American","Eat when you are hungry; drink when you are dry."
"American","Eat at pleasure; drink by measure."
"American","Easy does it."
"American","Easy come, easy go."
"American","East or west, home is best."
"American","Drink and frankfurters for a dime; kill a man before his time."
"American","Earnest effort leads some to success."
"American","Education is a gift that none can take away."
"American","Eagles don't catch flies."
"American","Each husband gets the infidelity he deserves."
"American","Each day provides its own gifts."
"American","Dynamite comes in small packages."
"American","Dying men speak true."
"American","Dying is as natural as living soundly."
"American","Durability is better than show."
"American","Drunken days have their tomorrow."
"American","Earth has no sorrow that heaven cannot heal."
"American","Birds of a feather flock together."
"American","Borrowed wives, like borrowed books, are seldom returned."
"American","Boldness does not always succeed."
"American","Boast not of tomorrow, for you know not what the day may bring forth."
"American","Blood is inherited and virtue acquired."
"American","Blind chance sweeps the world along."
"American","Blessed is he who takes himself seriously."
"American","Blessed are they that have not seen and yet have believed."
"American","Deed done is well begun."
"American","Black fowl can lay white eggs."
"American","Boys will be boys."
"American","Birds of a colour flock together."
"American","Big buckets can be filled at small streams."
"American","Beware the anger of a patient man."
"American","Better to risk a little than to lose the whole."
"American","Better to be safe than sorry."
"American","Better once in heaven than ten times at the gate."
"American","Better no law than a law not enforced."
"American","Better lose a jest than a friend."
"American","Blame not others for the faults that are in you."
"American","Business goes where it is invited and stays where it is well treated."
"American","Calmness is a great advantage."
"American","Calm weather in June, sets the corn in tune."
"American","Call me anything but late for dinner."
"American","By their fruits you shall know them."
"American","By the yard, life is hard. By the inch, it's a cinch."
"American","By others' faults wise men correct their own."
"American","By different methods different men excel."
"American","Buying on credit is robbing next year's crop."
"American","Bought friends are not friends indeed."
"American","Business is business, and love is love."
"American","Boys seldom make passes at girls wearing glasses."
"American","Bury your own dead."
"American","Bury can't and you'll find will."
"American","Bulls make money and bears make money, but hogs just get slaughtered."
"American","Brothers are like hands and feet."
"American","Brooding may be very far from knowing."
"American","Brevity is the soul of wit."
"American","Bragging saves advertising."
"American","Better cut the shoe than pinch the foot."
"American","Business neglected is business lost."
"American","Be careful but not full of care."
"American","Better go around than fall into the ditch."
"American","Be not led by flattery."
"American","Be not discouraged by adverse circumstances."
"American","Be just before you are generous."
"American","Be in general virtuous, and you will be happy."
"American","Be gay today, for tomorrow you may die."
"American","Be content and do not heed the goadings of ambitions."
"American","Be civil to every man; you know not who may prove to be your friend."
"American","Be slow in choosing a friend, but slower in changing him."
"American","Be cautious but polite."
"American","Beauty and folly are old companions."
"American","Bait the hook well and the fish will bite."
"American","Bad to do evil, but worse to boast about it."
"American","Bad the crow, bad the egg."
"American","Bad planning on your part does not constitute an emergency on my part."
"American","Bad news travels fast."
"American","Bad men excuse their faults, good men leave them."
"American","Bad luck can't be dated."
"American","Everything happens for a reason."
"American","Be certain and on the level."
"American","Begin in time to finish without hurry."
"American","Candour will lose you some friends, but not as many as deceit."
"American","Better buy than borrow."
"American","Better bend the neck than bruise the forehead."
"American","Better be envied than pitied."
"American","Better an old man's darling than a young man's slave."
"American","Better a small fish than an empty dish."
"American","Better a little fire to warm us than a big one to burn us."
"American","Better a kindly fool than a proud wise man."
"American","Be not lenient to your own faults."
"American","Benefits turn poison in bad minds."
"American","Better do little good than a great deal bad."
"American","Before you flare up at anyone's faults, take time to count ten of your own."
"American","Before marriage open your eyes wide; afterwards close them tightly."
"American","Before honor is humility."
"American","Before borrowing money from a friend decide which you need most."
"American","Beauty without virtue is a rose without fragrance."
"American","Beauty is only skin deep."
"American","Beauty is no longer amiable than while virtue adorns it."
"American","Beauty is as beauty does."
"American","Better a donkey that carries me than a horse that throws me."
"American","Courage is fear that has said its prayers."
"American","Confidence of success is almost success."
"American","Crosses are the ladders to heaven."
"American","Criticism is something you can avoid by saying nothing, doing nothing, and being nothing."
"American","Credit is suspicion asleep."
"American","Crap or get off the pot."
"American","Cows can catch no rabbits."
"American","Courtesy on one side only never lasts for long."
"American","Courtesy is the password to safety."
"American","Cultivate friends who pray for you, not prey upon you."
"American","Courage without conduct is like a ship without ballast."
"American","Culture is one thing, and varnish is another."
"American","Count no man successful until he is dead."
"American","Corn makes more at the mill than it does in the crib."
"American","Contempt is the best return for scurrility."
"American","Constant occupation prevents temptation."
"American","Constant dripping wears away stone."
"American","Consider whether your fun will cause another's unhappiness."
"American","Consent to common custom, but not to common folly."
"American","Can't have a family fuss without the whole town knowing about it."
"American","Courtesy is appropriate for gentlemen and necessary for thieves."
"American","Dare to be true; nothing can need a lie."
"American","Avoid anger and you will not sin."
"American","Debt is the worst kind of poverty."
"American","Death to the wolf is life to the lamb."
"American","Death rides with the drinking driver."
"American","Death keeps no calendar."
"American","Death fiddles and we dance."
"American","Death devours lambs as well as sheep."
"American","Death and taxes may be hard to beat."
"American","Crowning a clown won't make him a king."
"American","Dark days and storms heighten the appreciation of sunshine."
"American","Confidence is a plant of slow growth."
"American","Danger is next neighbour to security."
"American","Danger begets caution."
"American","Cut your losses and let your profits run."
"American","Custom surpasses nature."
"American","Custom is the great guide."
"American","Curses, like chickens, come home to roost."
"American","Cunning men deal in generalizations."
"American","Cunning is the ape of wisdom."
"American","Darkness is the owl's desire."
"American","Certainty is better than hope."
"American","Conscience is only another name for truth."
"American","Cheerfulness, helpfulness and honesty are fine, good companions to take with you through life."
"American","Cheerful company shortens the miles."
"American","Chaste is she whom no one has asked."
"American","Charity is not a bone you throw to your dog but a bone you share with your dog."
"American","Charity is a virtue of the heart and not of the hand."
"American","Charity begins at home but should not end there."
"American","Character is what you are in the dark when no one else is around."
"American","Childhood shows the man as morning shows the day."
"American","Change of fortune hurts a wise man no more that a change of the moon."
"American","Choose you friends like your books: few but choice."
"American","Cease to do evil, learn to do well."
"American","Caution is the downfall to ambition."
"American","Caution is a parent of safety."
"American","Cats that wear gloves catch no mice."
"American","Catch before hanging."
"American","Cast the beam out of your own eye before you try to cast the mote from the eyes of your neighbour."
"American","Careless hurry may cause endless regret."
"American","Deceive not yourselves."
"American","Character is what we are; reputation is what others think we are."
"American","Colleges hate geniuses, just as convents hate saints."
"American","Confide not in him who has deceived you."
"American","Condition is 90 percent of the game."
"American","Conceit is the self satisfaction of a jackass."
"American","Compromise makes a good umbrella but a poor roof."
"American","Comparisons make enemies of our friends."
"American","Company in distress makes trouble less."
"American","Common sense is very uncommon with a lot of people."
"American","Common sense is genius dressed in its working clothes."
"American","Childhood should be happy and carefree."
"American","Coming events cast their shadows before."
"American","Candour once went further boldly and in smiles, but it crept home in tatters and tears."
"American","Close, but no cigar."
"American","Close enough for horseshoes and hand grenades."
"American","Cleverness is serviceable for everything, sufficient for nothing."
"American","Clean your own doorstep before you clean someone else's."
"American","Clean around your own back door before you clean around someone else's."
"American","Christmas comes, but once a year is enough."
"American","Choose your love, then love your choice."
"American","Choose your friends like your books, few but choice."
"American","Commerce flourishes by circumstances precarious."
"American","When you see gossamer flying, be sure the air is drying."
"American","Women are like books: too much gilding makes men suspicious that the binding is the most important part."
"American","Where the carrion is, there the eagles gather."
"American","Where the carcass is, there the ravens will collect together."
"American","Where law ends, tyranny begins."
"American","When your neighbour's house is on fire, beware of your own."
"American","When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced. Live you life in a manner so that when you die the world cries and you rejoice."
"American","Where there's smoke, there's toast."
"American","When you see the gossaner flying, be sure the air is drying."
"American","Who avoids temptation avoids sin."
"American","When you persuade, speak of interest, not of reason."
"American","When you go to dance, take heed whom you take by the hand."
"American","When you buy friends with anything other than friendship, they do not stay bought long."
"American","When you argue with a fool, make sure he is not doing the same."
"American","When the water's high, the boat's high."
"American","When the glow-worm lights her lamp, the air is always very damp."
"American","When the glow worm lights her lamp, the air is always very damp."
"American","When you throw dirt, you lose ground."
"American","Whom chance often passes by, it finds at last."
"American","We must take the bitter with the better."
"American","With the old year leave your faults, however dear."
"American","With age comes wisdom."
"American","Wishes won't wash dishes."
"American","Wise men learn from other men's mistakes; fools insist on learning from their own."
"American","Wisdom doesn't always speak in greek and latin."
"American","Where the woman wears the breeches, she has a good right to them."
"American","Why buy the cow when you can get the milk for free?"
"American","When the eagle is dead, the crows pick out his eyes."
"American","Whoever gossips to you will gossip of you."
"American","Who rewards evil for good, evil shall not depart his house."
"American","Who pleasure gives shall joy receive."
"American","Who never doubted never half believed."
"American","Who is great in faith won't be small in failure."
"American","Who has drunk will drink."
"American","Who busies himself where no profit is found remains a fool the whole year round."
"American","Wide experience makes for deep tolerance."
"American","What a man can be is born with him; what he becomes is a result of his environment."
"American","When a dog bites a man, that is not news; but when a man bites a dog, that is news."
"American","Whatever nature does least, man does most."
"American","What the eye can't see, the heart won't crave."
"American","What one fool can do, another can."
"American","What isn't your duty isn't your business."
"American","What is an expert? Someone who is twenty miles from home."
"American","When the fruit fails, welcome haws."
"American","What a story these old walls could tell."
"American","When a man is down, everyone runs over him."
"American","What a fool does in the end, the wise man does in the beginning."
"American","Welcome is the best dish on the table."
"American","Wealth consists not of having great possessions but of having few wants."
"American","Weak men wait for opportunities, strong men make them."
"American","We'll cross that bridge when we get to it."
"American","We seldom fear what we can laugh at."
"American","We see least with borrowed eyes."
"American","What goes around comes around."
"American","When in doubt, win the trick."
"American","Words and deeds are not weighed in the same balance."
"American","When the dead man sings it may last a very long time."
"American","When the candles are all out, all women are fair."
"American","When the bait's worth more than the fish, it's time to stop fishing."
"American","When the apple gets ripe, it's likely to fall."
"American","When the ale is in, wit is out."
"American","When pleasure interferes with business, give up business."
"American","When a father praises his son, he flatters himself."
"American","When life hands you lemons, make lemonade."
"American","When a girl whistles, the angels cry."
"American","When in doubt, find out."
"American","When in doubt, don't."
"American","When in charge, ponder. When in trouble, delegate. When in doubt, mumble."
"American","When fortune knocks, open the door."
"American","When fools make mistakes, they lay the blame on providence."
"American","When death knocks at your door, you must answer."
"American","When the fox preaches, beware of your geese."
"American","When one door shuts, another opens."
"American","You have to be smarter than the dog to teach him tricks."
"American","Without justice, courage is weak."
"American","You must not enthrone ignorance just because there is much of it."
"American","You must cut your coat according to your cloth."
"American","You might as well die with the chills as with the fever."
"American","You may choose your friends; your family is thrust upon you."
"American","You make a mountain of a mole-hill."
"American","You need more than dancing shoes to be a dancer."
"American","You have to crawl before you can walk."
"American","You need not grease a fat sow."
"American","You don't put robbers to work in a bank."
"American","You don't get what you deserve, you get what you negotiate."
"American","You cannot unscramble eggs."
"American","You cannot squeeze blood out of a stone."
"American","You cannot have all chiefs; you gotta have Indians too."
"American","You cannot drive a windmill with a pair of bellows."
"American","You can't unscramble scrambled eggs."
"American","You made your bed, now lie in it."
"American","Your first accident may be your last."
"American","The king's cheese goes half away in parings."
"American","The secret of life is not to do what you like, but to like what you do."
"American","Youth is a blunder, manhood a struggle, old age a regret."
"American","Your whole destiny is involved in the attitude you take toward your sin."
"American","Your thoughts go no farther than your vocabulary."
"American","Your sins will find you out."
"American","You must pay the fiddler if you want to dance."
"American","Your ignorance is your worst enemy."
"American","You can't trust your best friend."
"American","Your failures could be stepping-stones to success."
"American","Your best friend is yourself."
"American","Young courage and old caution are a strong pair."
"American","You're not supposed to keep religion, it's supposed to keep you."
"American","You'll hear a lot of things before your ears drop off."
"American","You will never find a cat on a cold hearth."
"American","You will always be lucky if you know how to make friends with strange cats."
"American","Your own faults look as big to the other fellow as his do to you."
"American","You can bear with your own faults, and why not a fault in your wife?."
"American","You can never tell what's in a package by its cover."
"American","You can lead a horse to water, but you can't make it drink."
"American","You can hardly keep from getting soiled if you fight with a skunk."
"American","You can go home when you can go nowhere else."
"American","You can get far with a lie, but not come back."
"American","You can fool an old horse once but you can't fool him twice."
"American","You can't unscramble eggs."
"American","You can build a house but you must make a home."
"American","You can't be a howling success by simply howling."
"American","You can always tell a drunkard by his actions."
"American","You are never too young to die."
"American","You are judged not by what you have but by what you do with what you have."
"American","Years know more than books."
"American","Wrinkled purses make wrinkled faces."
"American","Would you persuade, speak of interest, not of reason."
"American","Work well done makes pleasure more fun."
"American","You can drive sixty miles a minute, but there is no future in it."
"American","You can't jest an enemy into a friend, but you can jest a friend into an enemy."
"American","What's the good of a fair apple if it has a worm in its heart?"
"American","You can't tell the depth of the well by the length of the handle on the pump."
"American","You can't tell a book by its cover."
"American","You can't take a second drink unless you have taken a first."
"American","You can't steal second base with your foot on first."
"American","You can't see the sun when you're crying."
"American","You can't lose what you haven't got."
"American","You can run into debt, but you have to crawl out."
"American","You can't keep the birds from flying over your head, but you can keep them from building a nest in your hair."
"American","You can shut the door on a thief, but you can do nothing about a liar."
"American","You can't hold another fellow down in the ditch unless you stay down there with him."
"American","You can't get there from here."
"American","You can't fly with one wing."
"American","You can't fit a round peg in a square hole."
"American","You can't catch fish on a dry line."
"American","You can't blame a dentist for looking down at the mouth."
"American","You can't unscramble an egg."
"American","You can't kid your conscience."
"American","There is no little enemy."
"American","Those who try to deceive may expect to be paid in their own coin."
"American","There's always a bad egg in every crowd."
"American","There's a pot gold at the end of the rainbow."
"American","There's a fool born every minute."
"American","There must be a first time for everything."
"American","There isn't a aascAt or a thief that doesn't have his devotion."
"American","There's no advice like father's -- even if you don't take it."
"American","There is nothing better than a good woman and nothing worse than a bad one."
"American","When a badman dies, he either goes to hell or to the Pecos."
"American","There is no lie spun so fine, through which the truth won't shine."
"American","There is no education like adversity."
"American","There is no disgrace in honest labour."
"American","There is no accounting about tastes."
"American","There is more to honesty than meets the eye."
"American","There is many a slip 'twixt cup and lip."
"American","There is delight in danger and danger in delight."
"American","There is only one blasphemy, and that is injustice."
"American","They who play with edged tools must expect to be cut."
"American","Those who think they can't are generally right."
"American","Those who take the profits should also bear the expense."
"American","Those who sleep with dogs gets up with fleas."
"American","Those who betray their friends must not expect others to keep faith with them."
"American","Those that never had a cushion never need one."
"American","Those above are going down, those below are going up."
"American","There's more than one way to beat the devil around the bush."
"American","Thieves hunt in couples, but a liar has no accomplice."
"American","There are two sides to every story -- and then there's the truth."
"American","They who drink beer think beer."
"American","They die well that live well."
"American","There's no use to pray after the devil has you."
"American","There's no use in closing the barn door after the horse is stolen."
"American","There's no use asking the cow to pour you a glass of milk."
"American","We must all eat a peck of dirt before we die."
"American","There's no place like home."
"American","Think twice before you speak to a friend in need."
"American","The tiger crouches before he leaps upon his prey."
"American","The wise and the fool have their fellows."
"American","The wicked work harder to preach hell than the righteous do to get to heaven."
"American","The weed of arrogance grows on a dunghill."
"American","The weaker the argument, the stronger the words."
"American","The way to avoid great faults is to b aware of little ones."
"American","The unknown is always great."
"American","There is a time to fish and a time to dry nets."
"American","The tougher the fight, the sweeter the triumph."
"American","The world is a ladder for some to go up and others down."
"American","The tail can't shake the dog."
"American","The sound of a church bell at times has more effect than a sermon."
"American","The sleeping fox catches no chickens."
"American","The simplest things are the most startling."
"American","The show must go on."
"American","The shortest follies are the best."
"American","The shortest distance between two points is a straight line."
"American","The truth is better than a lie."
"American","There are many who prefer to despise and belittle that which is beyond their reach."
"American","There's no such thing as a horse that can't be rode or a cowboy that can't be throwed."
"American","There are three things that can destroy a preacher, the glory, the gold, and the girls."
"American","There are three kinds of people; those that make things happen, those that watch things happen and those who don't know what's happening."
"American","There are three faithful friends: an old wife, an old dog, and ready money."
"American","There are other fish in the sea."
"American","There are not so many who must feign madness to survive."
"American","There are more ways to kill a dog than by choking him on peanut butter."
"American","The wise man keeps his own counsel."
"American","There are many witty men whose brains can't fill their bellies."
"American","The wish is the father of the deed."
"American","There are many kinds of fruit that grow on the tree of life, but none so sweet as friendship."
"American","There are many echoes in the world, but few voices."
"American","There are always more fish in the pond."
"American","There ain't no such thing as a free lunch."
"American","The young may die; the old must die."
"American","The worm turns."
"American","There is a remedy for everything, could we but hit upon it."
"American","There are more ways than one to kill a cat."
"American","Trust in god but lock your car."
"American","Too much courtesy, too much craft."
"American","Though the fox wear silk, he is still a fox."
"American","Two clocks don't run alike; two men don't think alike."
"American","Twin fools: one doubts nothing, the other everything."
"American","Turnabout is fair play."
"American","Try your friend before you trust him."
"American","There's no fun in physics, but a good deal of physics in fun."
"American","Truth may be blamed but never shamed."
"American","Unasked-for advice smells bad."
"American","True worth is in being, not seeming."
"American","True generosity is the ability to accept ingratitude."
"American","True friends never polish each other."
"American","True friends are like diamonds, precious and rare; false ones like autumn leaves, found everywhere."
"American","True bravery is without witness."
"American","Too much prosperity makes most men fools."
"American","Too much force breeds suspicion."
"American","Try the ice before you venture on it."
"American","We all fade as the leaf."
"American","We may give advice, but we cannot give conduct."
"American","We judge others by their acts, but ourselves by our intentions."
"American","We hate those who will not take our advice and despise those who do."
"American","We easily disbelieve those things which we desire not."
"American","We do not inherit the land from our ancestors; we borrow it from our children."
"American","We can be deceived by fair appearance."
"American","Two eyes can see better than one."
"American","We always return to our first loves."
"American","Two dogs over one bone seldom agree."
"American","Watch out for wooden nickels."
"American","Warm weather in june sets the corn in tune."
"American","Walk on your own feet."
"American","Variety is the spice of life."
"American","Use your wit as a shield, not as a dagger."
"American","Use it up, make do, or do without."
"American","Unite to move forward."
"American","We are as big as the thing which bothers us."
"American","Time heals all wounds."
"American","To command one must learn to obey."
"American","To carry care to bed is to sleep with a pack on your back."
"American","To become a father is easy, but to be a father is difficult."
"American","To be trusted is a greater compliment than to be loved."
"American","To be successful in love, one must know how to begin and when to stop."
"American","To be proud of knowledge is to be blind with light."
"American","To do nothing is the way to be nothing."
"American","Time saved at the cost of an accident is no saving."
"American","Thrift is to a man what chastity is to a woman."
"American","Time and tide wait for no man."
"American","Tigers and deer do not stroll together."
"American","Through wisdom is a house built, and by understanding it is established."
"American","Three faithful friends: an old wife, an old dog, and ready money."
"American","Two's company, three's a crowd."
"American","Three --- friends: an old wife, an old dog, and ready money."
"American","Threatened folks may live the longest: they take numerous precautions."
"American","To be a public man is slavery."
"American","Too far east is west."
"American","To err is human; to dine, divine."
"American","Too many fingers spoil the pie."
"American","Too many cooks spoil the brew."
"American","Tongue double brings trouble."
"American","To spoil a child is to maim it a bit."
"American","To see beauty you must have beauty in your soul."
"American","To plough a straight furrow, never look back."
"American","To one who understands, few words are needed."
"American","To know all is to forgive all."
"American","To have a friend, close one eye; to keep him, close both."
"American","To forgive a duke his tyranny alters not the total situation."
"American","Too much attention to the pigskin doesn't help the sheepskin."
"American","To forget is impossible."
"American","To err is human; to keep it up is folly."
"American","To favor the ill is to injure the good."
"American","To laugh at a man with sense is the privilege of fools."
"American","Praise makes a bad man worse."
"American","Republicans will do anything for the poor except get off their backs."
"American","Pain is forgotten where gain comes."
"American","Opportunities, like eggs, come one at a time."
"American","Poets are born, not made."
"American","Practice what you preach."
"American","Paddle your own canoe."
"American","Put up or shut up."
"American","Put your money where your mouth is."
"American","Put your trust in God, and keep your powder dry."
"American","Once bitten, twice shy."
"American","Quarreling dogs come halting home."
"American","Men that have much business must have much pardon."
"American","Scratch my back and I'll scratch yours."
"American","Silence is golden, speech is silver."
"American","Putting the cart before the horse."
"American","Men apt to promise are apt to forget."
"American","Silence is golden."
"American","You can't unscramble an egg."
"American","Man is greater than the tools he invents."
"American","Man is like a banana: when he leaves the bunch, he gets skinned."
"American","Man is the only animal who can be skinned twice."
"American","Man cannot live by bread alone."
"American","Never miss a good chance to shut up."
"American","Man can't live in this world alone."
"American","Old age is ripeness."
"American","Men are blind in their own cause."
"American","Men seek less to be instructed than applauded."
"American","Never be content with your lot. Try for a lot more."
"American","Never swap horses crossing a stream."
"American","Never trouble trouble till trouble troubles you."
"American","Of two evils, it is always best to vote for the less hypocritical."
"American","Many speak much who cannot speak well."
"American","When pleasure interferes with business, give up business."
"American","The worm turns."
"American","Time heals all wounds."
"American","Turnabout is fair play."
"American","Two's company, three's a crowd."
"American","Variety is the spice of life."
"American","Where there's smoke, there's fire."
"American","What a story these old walls could tell."
"American","The receiver is as bad as the thief."
"American","Wishes won't wash dishes."
"American","You don't put robbers to work in a bank."
"American","You made your bed, now lie in it."
"American","You make a mountain of a mole-hill."
"American","Make love, not war."
"American","Feed sparingly and defy the physician."
"American","We may give advice, but we cannot give conduct."
"American","The cemeteries are filled with people who thought the world couldn't get along without them."
"American","Step on a crack break your mother's back."
"American","Sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me."
"American","Stopping at third base adds no more to the score than striking out."
"American","Take the bitter with the sweet."
"American","Talk is cheap but it takes money to buy whiskey."
"American","Talk is cheap."
"American","The wish is the father of the deed."
"American","The bad workman blames his tools."
"American","The show must go on."
"American","The chickens have come home to roost."
"American","The child is the father of the man."
"American","The most dangerous food is a wedding cake."
"American","The mountains are never so far apart but the animals find one another."
"American","The reason some people are stingy is also the reason they are rich."
"American","Stand up, cent, let the dollar sit down."
"American","The bad gardener quarrels with his rake."
"American","Don't put all your eggs in one basket."
"American","A girl with cotton stockings never sees a mouse."
"American","Crap or get off the pot."
"American","Don't close the barn door after the horse runs away."
"American","Don't cry over spilt milk."
"American","Don't cry till you are out of the wood."
"American","Don't cut off your nose to spite your face."
"American","Christmas comes, but once a year is enough."
"American","Don't judge a book by its cover."
"American","By the yard, life is hard. By the inch, it's a cinch."
"American","Don't throw out the baby with the bath water."
"American","Don't throw out your dirty water until you get in fresh."
"American","Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater."
"American","Don't upset the apple cart."
"American","For age and want save while you may, no morning sun lasts a whole day."
"American","Easy come, easy go."
"American","Don't hide your light under a bushel."
"American","All men are fools, but all fools are not men."
"American","Love many, trust few and always paddle your own canoe."
"American","A malignant sore throat is a danger; a malignant throat not sore is worse."
"American","A man can die just once."
"American","A man can't do more than he can do. What says Don Ferdinando?"
"American","A man is as big as the things that made him mad."
"American","A man never becomes an orator if he has something to say."
"American","Close, but no cigar."
"American","A poor man is always behind."
"American","Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we shall die."
"American","All men are not cast in the same mold."
"American","An American will go to hell for a bag of coffee."
"American","Bad news travels fast."
"American","Bad planning on your part does not constitute an emergency on my part."
"American","Bad the crow, bad the egg."
"American","Boys will be boys."
"American","A miss is as good as a mile."
"American","It takes one to know one."
"American","If you can't lick 'em, join 'em."
"American","Don't use a lot where a little will do."
"American","If you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen."
"American","Ignorance is a form of environmental pollution."
"American","Ignorance is bliss."
"American","In politics, a man must learn to rise above principle."
"American","Even a dog knows the difference between being stumbled over and being kicked."
"American","It takes nine months to have a baby, no matter how many people you put on the job."
"American","I'd rather have them say ""There he goes"" than ""Here he lies.""."
"American","It takes three generation to make a gentleman."
"American","It takes two to make a bargain."
"American","Leave well enough alone."
"American","Leaves enough, but few grapes."
"American","Let the big dog eat."
"American","Loose lips sink ships."
"American","It takes a thief to catch a thief."
"American","A dog is a man's best friend."
"American","Every man has a fool up his sleeve."
"American","Every man has one black patch, and some have two."
"American","Every man hath a fool in his sleeve."
"American","Every man hath his hobby-horse."
"American","Feed a cold, starve a fever."
"American","If you can't ride two horses at once, you shouldn't be in the circus."
"American","Fish or cut bait."
"American","I'd rather be red than dead."
"American","Free ships, free goods."
"American","From little acorns mighty oaks do grow."
"American","Gold is where you find it."
"American","Good fences make good neighbors."
"American","Here today, gone tomorrow."
"American","Honesty is like an icicle; if once it melts that is the end of it."
"American","I am just as good as you are, and a damned sight better."
"American","A dose of adversity is often as needful as a dose of medicine."
"American Indian","A guilty conscience is a hidden enemy."
"American Indian","Listen or thy tongue will keep thee deaf."
"American Indian","Be first at the feast, and last at the fight."
"American Indian","Never criticize a man until you've walked a mile in his moccasins."
"American, Dutch","Many words will not fill a bushel."
"Amhara","What is hanging up, cannot be reached sitting down."
"Amhara","One rind is enough to tie a thousand pieces of wood."
"Amharic","One sent by a woman does not fear death."
"Amharic","When they wish to eat a vulture, they call it a guinea fowl."
"Amharic","When spider webs unite, they can tie up a lion."
"Amharic","He who knows much speaks with silence."
"Amharic","To lie about a far country is easy."
"Amharic","They snatched from me my own cry."
"Amharic","The poor man pleads, the judge listens."
"Amharic","The one who persists in asking question he learn the death of his Mother."
"Amharic","Slowly, slowly, even an egg will walk."
"Amharic","Women and donkeys need the stick."
"Amharic","A man who will go mad next year starts to roll up his sleeves this year."
"Amharic","A disease that fails to finsh us off will continue being condemned forever."
"Amharic","If left on one side it will burn."
"Amharic","A fool bull will look only for the green grass without looking the danger of toppling over the steep valley."
"Amharic","One can not stop sleeping in fear of bad dreams."
"Amharic","As porridge benefits those who heat and eat it, so does a child benefit those that rear it."
"Amharic","By his own hand he wrapped the snake around his neck."
"Amharic","If I could see your face, I would not need food."
"Amharic","If you spit laying down it will only come back in your mouth."
"Amharic","It is better to do things when you can prevent them than to cry when you are already suffering and nothing can be done anymore."
"Amharic","Little by little, an egg will walk."
"Amharic","May the crazy not die to make people laugh."
"Amharic","To lie about a far country is easy."
"Amish","The man who claims to be the boss in his own home will lie about other things as well."
"Amish","The man who claims to be the boss in his own home will lie about other things as well."
"Ancient","A man's work is from sun to sun, but a mother's work is never done."
"Ancient","Give a man a fish, he'll eat for a day. Teach a man how to fish, he'll eat for a lifetime."
"Ancient","Zeal is fit only for wise men but is found mostly in fools."
"Ancient","We have not inherited the earth from our ancestors, we have only borrowed it from our children."
"Ancient","Treat the earth well: it was not given to you by your parents, it was loaned to you by your children. We do not inherit the Earth from our Ancestors, we borrow it from our Children. We are more than the sum of our knowledge, we are the products of our imagination."
"Ancient","Good habits result from resisting temptation."
"Ancient","Zeal is fit only for wise men but is found mostly in fools."
"Ancient Egyptian","One who is serious all day will never have a good time, while one who is frivolous all day will never establish a household."
"Ancient Egyptian","Empty not your soul to everybody and do not diminish thereby your importance."
"Ancient Egyptian","Inquire about everything that you may understand it. be good tempered and magnanimous, that your disposition may be attractive."
"Ancient Egyptian","God loves him who cares for the poor more than him who respects the wealthy."
"Ancient Egyptian","Do not drink water in the house of a merchant: he will charge you for it."
"Ancient Egyptian","A blow is repaid by the like of it, and all that is achieved is a hitting."
"Ancient Egyptian","Wine, women and food give gladness to the heart."
"Ancient Egyptian","For everyone there is an appointed time."
"Angolan","The squirrel does not talk back to the elephant."
"Angolan","To be sure that your friend is a friend, you must go with him on a journey, travel with him day and night, go with him near and far."
"Angolan","The real journey of discovery begins in old age."
"Angolan","The mysterious road beckons the young man."
"Angolan","One spoon of soup in need has more value than a pot of soup when we have an abundance of food."
"Angolan","It is the voyage not the ship that matters."
"Angolan","Any visitor to the country who drinks from the River Bengo will never want to leave."
"Angolan","The one who throws the stone forgets; the one who is hit remembers forever."
"Angolan","Chance all; see what destiny yields."
"Angolan","He who goes to Our Lady of Muxima with an evil heart risks being drowned crossing the river to get there."
"Annang","A razor may be sharper than an ax, but it cannot cut wood."
"Apache","It is better to have less thunder in the mouth and more lightning in the hand."
"Arabian","I taught him archery everyday, and when he got good at it he throw an arrow at me."
"Arabian","I complained because I had no shoes until I met a man who had no feet."
"Arabian","I cured my self but I amputated my nose in the process."
"Arabian","I got you, O! worshiper of the helper, to help me but you are in need of help."
"Arabian","I saw people tending to the one who has money."
"Arabian","I tell no, I don't you no but the habit in you prevails. AND the tail of the dog never straightens up even if you hang to it a brick."
"Arabian","Hunger is an infidel."
"Arabian","I have sifted my flour and hung up the sieve."
"Arabian","Human thinks and God plans."
"Arabian","How great the grandfathers are, but how regretful what they left behind."
"Arabian","How can the eater of dates forbid the eating of dates?"
"Arabian","His fault is besides him."
"Arabian","Higher than the heavens."
"Arabian","I'm already drowning so why should I fear getting wet?"
"Arabian","Heard the question wrong, answered wrong."
"Arabian","If talk is silver then silence is gold."
"Arabian","He's hardly a sour grape, yet behaves like a raisin."
"Arabian","Heavier than a mountain."
"Arabian","He whose ace gets cut on, gets his underpants off. When you cut, cut high. The Third Hand is the highest hand."
"Arabian","If thy beloved was honey, don't lick all of him."
"Arabian","If there's no choice but advice, ask for the decisiveness of an advisor or the advice of a decisive person."
"Arabian","If the water is available you need not clean up with sand."
"Arabian","If the people wanted life, destiny better respond."
"Arabian","If the heart is empty, the rest will soon abandon you too."
"Arabian","If the hair was precious, wouldn't grow on the ass."
"Arabian","If not for religion, people would've killed each other."
"Arabian","If patience is sour then its result is sweet."
"Arabian","I'm up to it and to any great thing."
"Arabian","if no agreement, then separation."
"Arabian","If meat is expensive then patience is cheap."
"Arabian","If destiny does not fit you, fit yourself to destiny."
"Arabian","If an eagle is no good, cut it's feathers off."
"Arabian","If a wind blows, ride it."
"Arabian","If a poor man ate it, they would say it was because of his stupidity."
"Arabian","Idiomatic translation: A penny saved is a penny earned."
"Arabian","He who does not know the falcon would grill it."
"Arabian","He beat me and cried, and went before me to complain."
"Arabian","He laughs most he who laughs last."
"Arabian","He kills the peacock for the beauty of its feathers."
"Arabian","He is the sunshine at the edge of the roof."
"Arabian","He fishes in unclear water."
"Arabian","He fights with horns made of clay."
"Arabian","He fasts and fasts, then he breaks his fast with an onion."
"Arabian","He who got out of his home lessened his value."
"Arabian","He builds a castle by demolishing a country."
"Arabian","He mixes Ramadan with Sha'ban. Meaning: He confuses the issue."
"Arabian","Have patience and you'll get what you want."
"Arabian","Has a better voice than a pigeon."
"Arabian","hands are loans."
"Arabian","Had the monkey seen its ass, it wouldn't have danced."
"Arabian","Grapes and grapes."
"Arabian","Good manners is the greatest friend."
"Arabian","Goha said to his son that he wont sleep beside him. Said: Saved us your farts."
"Arabian","He fasted for a whole year and then broke his fast with an onion."
"Arabian","He who does not know you is not informed of you."
"Arabian","He who spits up in the air will get it back on his beard."
"Arabian","He who speaks about the future lies, even when he tells the truth."
"Arabian","He who sows the wind harvests the storm."
"Arabian","He who sees the calamity of other people finds his own calamity light."
"Arabian","He who plants thorns must never expect to gather roses."
"Arabian","He who peeps at the neighbor's window may chance to lose his eyes."
"Arabian","He who is free to do what he wants will use his hand as a balance."
"Arabian","He makes a dome out of a grain. Meaning: He worries about a small problem as if it is a big one."
"Arabian","If two thieves quarreled, what was stolen emerges."
"Arabian","He makes a hundred knives, none of which has a handle."
"Arabian","If you hear a person talking good about things that aren't in you, don't be sure that he wouldn't also say bad things about things that aren't in you."
"Arabian","He walks slowly and arrives first."
"Arabian","He that sows the wind shall reap the whirlwind."
"Arabian","He steals the mascara from her eyes."
"Arabian","He sold his vinyard and bought a squeezer."
"Arabian","He Said where are you going grape, She sighed?: I am staying on the couch."
"Arabian","He who was left by the bald is taken by the hairy."
"Arabian","He who has health has hope; and he who has hope, has everything."
"Arabian","Like a fish in water."
"Arabian","Leading by example is better than giving and advice."
"Arabian","Literal meaning: He left the party without having Hommos."
"Arabian","Literal meaning: Give the dough to baker even if he eats half of it."
"Arabian","Literal meaning: Give me long life and throw me in the sea."
"Arabian","Literal meaning: Cooking fat on honey."
"Arabian","Like the needle which clothes others while remaining naked."
"Arabian","Like the man who shields himself with a spiders home."
"Arabian","Literal meaning: The fisherman is the shark's friend."
"Arabian","Like an ostrich: cannot fly and cannot bear burdens."
"Arabian","Literal meaning: The friend in tight times."
"Arabian","Like a deaf man in a parade."
"Arabian","Life without a friend is death without a witness."
"Arabian","Life will show you what you did not know."
"Arabian","Life is made of two days. One which is sweet and the other is bitter."
"Arabian","Life is a dogma and a fight for the dogma."
"Arabian","Lies are the plague of speech."
"Arabian","If you had an opinion you better be determined."
"Arabian","Like someone trying to capture water in his fist."
"Arabian","Loving your country is pious."
"Arabian","Measure your quilt, then stretch your legs."
"Arabian","Measure your guilt, then stretch your legs."
"Arabian","Meaningless laughter is a sign of ill-breeding."
"Arabian","Many are the roads that do not lead to the heart."
"Arabian","Make your bargain before beginning to plow."
"Arabian","Lying is the disease and truth is the cure."
"Arabian","A god-given beauty needs no beautician."
"Arabian","Literal meaning: Save your white penny for your black day."
"Arabian","Luck in the sky and brains in the ground."
"Arabian","Laughing for no reason is rude."
"Arabian","Love is blind."
"Arabian","Longer than the winter's night."
"Arabian","longer than a sepration day."
"Arabian","Live together like brothers and do business like strangers."
"Arabian","Literal meaning: The sultan's sword is long."
"Arabian","Literal meaning: The people's lord is their servant."
"Arabian","Literal meaning: The gauge has overflown."
"Arabian","A good advice is part of the Religion.."
"Arabian","If you have no shame then do whatever you want."
"Arabian","Leave evil, it will leave you."
"Arabian","If you wanted obedience command with what is possible."
"Arabian","If you speak the word it shall own you, and if you don't you shall own it."
"Arabian","If you see the fangs of the lions, don't think the lion is smiling."
"Arabian","If you reach for the highest of ideals, you shouldn't settle for less than the stars."
"Arabian","If you opress who is below you then you won't be safe from the punishment of who is above you."
"Arabian","If you mentioned the wolf you better prepare the stick."
"Arabian","if you're a liar, then have a good memory."
"Arabian","Give a man some cloth and he'll ask for some lining."
"Arabian","If you're a wind then I'm a twister."
"Arabian","God's hand is with those who work in groups."
"Arabian","If you dress in gold or silk, you are still the same green grocer."
"Arabian","If you don't want to be disgraced, do as others do."
"Arabian","If you conduct yourself properly, fear no one."
"Arabian","If you can't reward then you should thank."
"Arabian","If you buy cheap meat, when it boils you smell what you have saved."
"Arabian","If you are to hit then make it painful, because you'll get one blame eitherways."
"Arabian","If you know then it's a disaster, and if you don't know then it's a greater disaster."
"Arabian","It is good to know the truth, but it is better to speak of palm trees."
"Arabian","Laugh, and the world laughs with you; weep, and you weep alone."
"Arabian","know your friend then leave him."
"Arabian","Kiils the victim and walks in his wake."
"Arabian","Keeping a secret is a commitment."
"Arabian","Journey and you will find replacement to the ones left behind."
"Arabian","It's as if she's fallen off an elephant's trunk."
"Arabian","It's a hardship that will go away."
"Arabian","If you wish/ask, wish/ask for more."
"Arabian","It is the end of the shahnameh that is pleasant."
"Arabian","If you are saved from the lion, do not be greedy and hunt it."
"Arabian","Inscribe science in writing."
"Arabian","Ink on paper."
"Arabian","In the desert of life the wise person travels by caravan, while the fool prefers to travel alone."
"Arabian","Ignorance is the worst acquaintance."
"Arabian","Ignorance is the death of the living."
"Arabian","If your house is of glass, don't throw rocks at others."
"Arabian","If you're beautiful, whatever you do is fine."
"Arabian","It may be a fire today, but tomorrow it will be only ashes."
"Arabian","Ask thy purse what thou should'st buy."
"Arabian","An ugly woman's husband better be blind."
"Arabian","Beat the iron while it is hot."
"Arabian","Be generous to a generous person and you'd win him, be generous to a mean person and he'd rebel on you."
"Arabian","Be careful of your enemy once and of your friend a thousand times, for a double crossing friend knows more evil."
"Arabian","Be aware of the idiot, for he is like an old dress. Every time you patch it, the wind will tear it back again."
"Arabian","Avoid what will require an apology."
"Arabian","Avoid the company of a liar. And if you can't avoid him, don't believe him."
"Arabian","Believe what you see and lay aside what you hear."
"Arabian","At the narrow passage there is no brother and no friend."
"Arabian","Believe what you see and not all you hear."
"Arabian","Ask the experienced rather than the learned."
"Arabian","Ask for a science that would be useful to you, would keep you from harm and shame, then elevate you."
"Arabian","Arrogance over the arrogant is modesty."
"Arabian","Arrogance is a weed that grows mostly on a dunghill."
"Arabian","Arrogance diminishes wisdom."
"Arabian","Any water in the desert will do."
"Arabian","Close the door from which the wind blows and relax."
"Arabian","Ate and praised is better than ate and was silence."
"Arabian","Blood can never turn into water."
"Arabian","Gnats, in great number, can beat an elephant."
"Arabian","Cheaper than dates in Basra."
"Arabian","Charity is a silent prayer."
"Arabian","Came back with Hunain's shoes. meaning: Came back with nothing."
"Arabian","Call someone your lord and he'll sell you in the slave market."
"Arabian","Burial is the way to honor the dead."
"Arabian","Brighter than a peacock."
"Arabian","Beating the dead is a sin."
"Arabian","Bolder than a rooster."
"Arabian","An excuse is sometime more ugly than a guilt."
"Arabian","Blame comes before swords."
"Arabian","Birds of a feather flock together."
"Arabian","Beware of he whose goodness you can't ask for for and whose evil you can't be protected from."
"Arabian","Better safe than sorry."
"Arabian","Better late than never."
"Arabian","Better a thousand enemies outside the house than one inside."
"Arabian","Better a hundred enemies outside the house than one inside."
"Arabian","branches straighten."
"Arabian","A lion on me and an ostritch in war."
"Arabian","An unshod mocks a shoe."
"Arabian","A problem is solved when it gets tougher."
"Arabian","A person who does not speak out against the wrong is a mute devil."
"Arabian","A nod for a wise man, and a rod for a fool."
"Arabian","A mouth that praises and a hand that kills."
"Arabian","A mother is a school, preparing her is like preparing a good nation."
"Arabian","A mosquito can make the lion's eye bleed."
"Arabian","A secret is like a dove: when it leaves my hand it takes wing."
"Arabian","A lot got the crow to his mother."
"Arabian","A secret is like a dove: when it leaves my hand it takes wing."
"Arabian","A known mistake is better than an unknown truth."
"Arabian","A house divided cannot stand."
"Arabian","A horse which is tamed at forty is only good for resurrection day."
"Arabian","A horse that will not carry a saddle must have no oats."
"Arabian","A horse of good breed is not dishonored by his saddle."
"Arabian","A horse can trip."
"Arabian","Watching what you say is your best friend."
"Arabian","A monkey that amuses me is better than a deer astray."
"Arabian","Account by the dinar, give charity by the ass load."
"Arabian","An excellent appearance, an empty pocket."
"Arabian","An army of sheep led by a lion would defeat an army of lions led by a sheep."
"Arabian","Among the blind, the one-eyed man is king."
"Arabian","All sunshine makes a desert."
"Arabian","All mankind is divided into three classes: those that are immovable, those that are moveable, and those that move."
"Arabian","Afraid of one's shadow."
"Arabian","Afar, it enraptures the heart, when near, it rends the gallbladder."
"Arabian","A promise is a cloud; fulfillment is rain; and the best promise is that which has been proved by rain."
"Arabian","Actions speak louder than words."
"Arabian","Closer than the carotid artery."
"Arabian","A word to the wise is sufficient."
"Arabian","A wise man's day is worth a fool's life."
"Arabian","A wise man associating with the vicious becomes an idiot; a dog traveling with good men becomes a rational being."
"Arabian","A tree starts with a seed."
"Arabian","A throw without a thrower."
"Arabian","A servant who has two masters, lies to one of them."
"Arabian","A sense of humor is the pole that adds balance to our steps as we walk the tightrope of life."
"Arabian","Advice sharpens a rusty opinion."
"Arabian","Example is better than precept."
"Arabian","Every delay has its blessings."
"Arabian","Faster than thoughts."
"Arabian","Faster than the wind."
"Arabian","Faster than lightning."
"Arabian","Faster than eye blink."
"Arabian","Faster than death."
"Arabian","Faster than an arrow."
"Arabian","Fire is more bearable than disgrace."
"Arabian","Experimenting is the great science."
"Arabian","Fire will burn itself out if it did not find anything to burn."
"Arabian","Examine what is said, not him who speaks."
"Arabian","Evil is of old date."
"Arabian","Evil in people does not go away when they get buried."
"Arabian","Every sun has to set."
"Arabian","Every son of Adam keeps hoping until he is carried away to his grave."
"Arabian","Every person is observant to the flaws of others and blind to his own flaws."
"Arabian","Cleanliness is out of faith."
"Arabian","Falseness lasts an hour, and truth lasts till the end of time."
"Arabian","From you the money, from me the dance."
"Arabian","God sells knowledge for labour -- honour for risk."
"Arabian","God helps those who help themselves."
"Arabian","God gives time but doesn't ignore."
"Arabian","God creates 40 people with the same looks."
"Arabian","Go softly, come softly, so that the cat does not gore you."
"Arabian","Give your friend your blood and money."
"Arabian","Meat and mass never hindered man."
"Arabian","Fire could leave ashes behind."
"Arabian","Further than Pleiades."
"Arabian","Every day of your life is a page of your history."
"Arabian","Forgetness is the plague of knowledge."
"Arabian","Forget brotherhood, each goat will cost your seven dinars."
"Arabian","For the sake of the flowers, the weeds are watered."
"Arabian","For smart people, signs can replace words."
"Arabian","For every glance behind us, we have to look twice to the future."
"Arabian","Follows more than a shadow."
"Arabian","Fixing the known is better than waiting for the unknown."
"Arabian","Get together like brother, and keep each other in check like strangers."
"Arabian","Dawn does not come twice to awaken a man."
"Arabian","Every disease has a medicine except for death."
"Arabian","Do good to people in order to enslave their hearts."
"Arabian","Do good and throw it in the tigris and god will repay you in the desert."
"Arabian","Do good and throw it in sea."
"Arabian","Distance is disaffection."
"Arabian","Dissent and you will be known."
"Arabian","dig a well then close the well, but do not fire a worker."
"Arabian","Do not stand in a place of danger trusting in miracles."
"Arabian","days are countries."
"Arabian","Dogs bark, but the caravan moves on."
"Arabian","Darker than the night."
"Arabian","Cooler than ice."
"Arabian","Content is an everlasting treasure."
"Arabian","Consult the wise and do not disobey him."
"Arabian","Complaining to someone other than God is disgraceful."
"Arabian","Complaining is the weak's weapon."
"Arabian","Closer than the closeness of the teeth to the tongue."
"Arabian","Death is a camel which sleeps in everyone's house."
"Arabian","Dwell not upon thy weariness, thy strength shall be according to the measure of thy desire."
"Arabian","Every ambitious man is a captive and every covetous one a pauper."
"Arabian","Envy is a weight not placed by its bearer."
"Arabian","Eats more than a whale."
"Arabian","Eats more than a fire."
"Arabian","Eat your bread with water and don't ask for another's dough."
"Arabian","Eat whatever you like, but dress as others do."
"Arabian","Eat whatever thou likest, but dress as others do."
"Arabian","Do not buy either the moon or the news, for in the end they will both come out."
"Arabian","Each hajji goes to mecca his own way."
"Arabian","God sends clothes to those with no proper figure, and bread to those with no teeth."
"Arabian","Dust does not burden him."
"Arabian","Don't send an old man to buy a donkey, nor a young man to woo a wife."
"Arabian","Don't pride over your wealth or beauty, one will be gone in a night and the other with a fever."
"Arabian","Don't neglect the consequence of your act."
"Arabian","Don't eat your bread on someone else's table."
"Arabian","Don't delay today's work until tomorrow."
"Arabian","Don't ask the singer to sing until he wishes to sing by himself."
"Arabian","Eat less food to find more sleep."
"Arabian","Write the bad things that are done to you in sand, but write the good things that happen to you on a piece of marble."
"Arabian","your brother is that who consoles you."
"Arabian","You reap what you sow."
"Arabian","You need a brother, without one you're like a person rushing to battle without a weapon."
"Arabian","You left them lost and bewildered."
"Arabian","You can smell his halvah."
"Arabian","You can live without a brother but not without a friend."
"Arabian","Wait 'til your ass crosses the bridge."
"Arabian","You are like a tree, giving your shade to the outside."
"Arabian","Your nose is a part of you even if it was cut."
"Arabian","work for engagement of your daughter, but don't work for engagement of your son."
"Arabian","Words of wisdom comes out of simple people mouths."
"Arabian","With rapport and offsprings. Said to congratulate newlyweds."
"Arabian","With carefulness you realize your opportunity."
"Arabian","Wit is folly unless a wise man hath the keeping of it."
"Arabian","Wishing does not make a poor man rich."
"Arabian","Wiser than Loqman."
"Arabian","You are striking cold iron."
"Arabian","Only three things in life are certain birth, death and change."
"Arabian","People are enemies of that which they don't know."
"Arabian","Patience is beautiful."
"Arabian","Paradise without people is not worth living in.."
"Arabian","Paradise is under mothers' feet."
"Arabian","Outer beauty is no good, give me inner beauty."
"Arabian","Out of desperation he calls the cat 'madam'."
"Arabian","Our parents planted so we ate, and we plant for our children to eat."
"Arabian","Your brother is who gives you a honest advice."
"Arabian","Opinion comes before the bravery of the braves."
"Arabian","Your lord is the lord of hearts."
"Arabian","Only the tent pitched by your own hands will stand."
"Arabian","youth and void and edginess ruin men."
"Arabian","Your tongue is your horse? if you take care of it, it takes care of you; if you betray it, betrays it will."
"Arabian","Your tongue is like a horse--if you take care of it, it takes care of you; if you treat it badly, it treats you badly."
"Arabian","Your secret is your captive."
"Arabian","Your relations are more deserving of your generosity."
"Arabian","Who does not go with you, go with him."
"Arabian","Oppose your affection to find rationality."
"Arabian","Translation: To run out of patience."
"Arabian","Winds blow counter to what ships desire."
"Arabian","Wisdom consists of ten parts -- nine parts of silence and one part with few words."
"Arabian","Warmer than burning charcoal."
"Arabian","A friend advises in his interest, not yours."
"Arabian","Visit rarely, and you will be more loved."
"Arabian","Unity is power."
"Arabian","Uglier than magic."
"Arabian","Weaker than a spider's net."
"Arabian","Trust in Allah, but tie your camel first."
"Arabian","Wealth comes like a turtle and goes away like a gazelle."
"Arabian","Translation: To get along very well."
"Arabian","Translation: Give the job to a person who knows how to perform it best even if it will cost you."
"Arabian","Translation: A friend is the one that lends a hand during the time of need."
"Arabian","Tougher than a stone."
"Arabian","Tougher than a rock."
"Arabian","too much modesty brings shame."
"Arabian","Tomorrow we sit by the wall and here it all."
"Arabian","Two watermelons cannot be carried in one hand."
"Arabian","When the reason is known, there will be no more shock."
"Arabian","People are slaves to charity/ good deeds."
"Arabian","While the word is yet unspoken, you are master of it; when once it is spoken, it is master of you."
"Arabian","Wherever you go, the sky is the same color."
"Arabian","When your son grows up, become his brother."
"Arabian","When you play, you may break your head."
"Arabian","When you mention 'dog,' you should get a stick."
"Arabian","When you cannot bite a hand, kiss it."
"Arabian","We were silenced by our patience, he entered with his donkey."
"Arabian","When what you want doesn't happen, learn to want what does."
"Arabian","Who does not understand a look, cannot understand long explanations."
"Arabian","When a door opens not to your knock, consider your reputation."
"Arabian","When a blind man dies, he is praised as having beautiful eyes."
"Arabian","What starts with a condition ends with out any oppression."
"Arabian","What is learnt in the cradle lasts to the grave."
"Arabian","What is learned in youth is carved in stone."
"Arabian","What can an old harlot do but repent of her misdeeds?"
"Arabian","Went to Haj while pilgrims are coming back."
"Arabian","When you are dead, your sister's tears will dry as time goes on, your widow's tears will cease in another's arms, but your mother will mourn you until she dies."
"Arabian","The barking of dogs does not reduce the beggar's daily allotment."
"Arabian","Stretch your legs according to the length of your kilim."
"Arabian","The carpenter's door is loose."
"Arabian","The best to sit with in all times is a book."
"Arabian","The best thing is the newest thing."
"Arabian","The best place in the world is on the back of a horse, and the best thing to do in time is to read a book."
"Arabian","The best of the things you own, is what is useful to you."
"Arabian","The best friend is the one who does not joke around."
"Arabian","the cure for fate is patience."
"Arabian","The beginning of anger is madness and the end of it is regret."
"Arabian","One hand cannot applaud."
"Arabian","The ass went seeking for horns and lost his ears."
"Arabian","The ant shall never crawl on its knees."
"Arabian","That is the lion's tail, do not play with it."
"Arabian","Thank who gives you and give who thanks you."
"Arabian","Take wisdom from the wise - not everyone who rides a horse is a jockey."
"Arabian","Suspicion is the sister of the wrong."
"Arabian","People are equal like the teeth of a comb.."
"Arabian","The best answer comes from the man who isn't angry."
"Arabian","God sells knowledge for labour -- honour for risk."
"Arabian","All sunchine makes the desert."
"Arabian","All sunshine makes the desert."
"Arabian","Ask the experienced rather than the learned."
"Arabian","At the narrow passage there is no brother and no friend."
"Arabian","Trees often transplanted never prosper."
"Arabian","The sinning is the best part of repentance."
"Arabian","Do not stand in a place of danger trusting in miracles."
"Arabian","the crown of ... is modesty."
"Arabian","Go and wake up your cook."
"Arabian","Stinginess demeans the value of man."
"Arabian","He that plants thorns must never expect to gather roses."
"Arabian","He who has health has hope; and he who has hope, has everything."
"Arabian","If you stop every time a dog barks, your road will never end."
"Arabian","Live together like brothers and do business like strangers."
"Arabian","Never give advice in a crowd."
"Arabian","No man is a good physician who has never been sick."
"Arabian","One coin in the money box makes more noise than when it is full."
"Arabian","Dwell not upon thy weariness, thy strength shall be according to the measure of thy desire."
"Arabian","prepare for the evil dog a dog who's equal to it."
"Arabian","Stupidity is a disease without a medicine."
"Arabian","Seek counsel of him who makes you weep, and not of him who makes you laugh."
"Arabian","Said: What would the blind want?? Said: A bag of eyes."
"Arabian","safer than the pigeon of Mekkah."
"Arabian","Rima came back to her old habits."
"Arabian","Remind the youngster of his next life."
"Arabian","Refers to people who are late in doing things."
"Arabian","Seek education from the cradle to the grave."
"Arabian","Protect your brother's privacy for what he knows of you."
"Arabian","Seek knowledge from the cradle to the grave."
"Arabian","Plant each day and you will eat."
"Arabian","Pick the lesser of the two evils."
"Arabian","People of the cave's slumber."
"Arabian","People follow the winner."
"Arabian","People follow the religion/ ways of their kings."
"Arabian","People don't thank someone who doesn't thank God."
"Arabian","To sit by the ring and tell the man inside, 'knock him down.'"
"Arabian","Proverbs are the lamp of speech."
"Arabian","Silence is the sign of approval."
"Arabian","Speak, for God spoke to Moses."
"Arabian","Some forgiveness is weakness."
"Arabian","So many in the jail while innocent."
"Arabian","Smoother than breeze."
"Arabian","Smoke of the neighbours renders you blind."
"Arabian","Smart people are blessed."
"Arabian","Slower than a turtle."
"Arabian","Seek education even if it takes you to China."
"Arabian","Similar to a bee: in their mouths they carry sweet honey, and in their tails poison."
"Arabian","People are for each other."
"Arabian","Shallow waters mak' maist din."
"Arabian","Shall the sheep go astray, they will be led by the ill goat."
"Arabian","Shall the gosling teach the goose to swim?"
"Arabian","Seven trades but no luck."
"Arabian","Send a wise man and don't advise him."
"Arabian","Self-praise is like chewing cotton wool."
"Arabian","Seek to get."
"Arabian","Sit where you are welcomed and helped, and don't sit where you are not welcomed."
"Arabian","Never speak ill of the dead."
"Arabian","More watchful than a dog."
"Arabian","O! my sister close thy door, and enough what happened to you."
"Arabian","O! my brother Flip the pot on its mouth, the daughters turn into their mums."
"Arabian","O! mother, the moon is at the door."
"Arabian","O! Count thy sheep Goha. Goha said one is asleep and the other is awake."
"Arabian","O! Count the waves of the sea Goha. Goha said the comings are more than what passed."
"Arabian","No one says, 'my yogurt is sour.'"
"Arabian","O! my sister Your son is like how you raised him. And your husband is like how you trained him."
"Arabian","No crowd ever waited at the gates of patience."
"Arabian","O! You sitting, may God protect you from the evils of the comers."
"Arabian","never let your tongue hit your neck."
"Arabian","Never give advice in a crowd."
"Arabian","Needle in a haystack."
"Arabian","Need excavates the trick."
"Arabian","My friends are like stars, pick one and it'll guide you."
"Arabian","My feet took me to my death."
"Arabian","The dogs may bark but the caravan moves on."
"Arabian","No cure, no pay."
"Arabian","On the day of victory no one is tired."
"Arabian","Tomorrow is close if you wait it."
"Arabian","the destiny of a coward comes from over him."
"Arabian","The deserter is the brother of the murderer."
"Arabian","The day of happiness is short."
"Arabian","One hand for oneself and one for the ship."
"Arabian","One hand cannot clap."
"Arabian","One hand cannot applaud."
"Arabian","O! my sister that depend on men; you are believing in water in a sieve."
"Arabian","One day is for us, and the other is against us."
"Arabian","More vicious than a snake."
"Arabian","Older than you by a day, wiser than you by a year."
"Arabian","Older than you by a day, more knowledgeable than you by a year."
"Arabian","Old habits die hard."
"Arabian","Old age is a thousand headaches."
"Arabian","Oh tyrant, your day will come."
"Arabian","Oh hasty one, God will delay you."
"Arabian","Often, under the unseeing hide the cunning."
"Arabian","One hand can't hold two watermelons."
"Arabian","More desperate than a drowning person."
"Arabian","Movement is a blessing."
"Arabian","More generous than Hatim."
"Arabian","More fluent than Qas Bin Sa'ida."
"Arabian","more flirty than oumrou'o al kayss."
"Arabian","More fearful than an ostrich."
"Arabian","More famous than a fire on a flag."
"Arabian","More fake than a mirage."
"Arabian","More handy than a silk worm."
"Arabian","More enduring than a donkey."
"Arabian","More hideous than a monkey."
"Arabian","More cursed than Abi Lahab."
"Arabian","More cautious than a crow."
"Arabian","More careful than an ant."
"Arabian","More awake than a wolf."
"Arabian","Money is a Cure."
"Arabian","Money finds money, water finds the puddle."
"Arabian","Moderation in spending is half of all living."
"Arabian","More fair than scales."
"Arabian","More observant than a bat."
"Arabian","More treacherous than a wolf."
"Arabian","More tearful than an orphan."
"Arabian","More tame than a dog."
"Arabian","More silent than the earth."
"Arabian","More sad than Al Khansaa' for Sakhr."
"Arabian","more robust than the nose of a lion."
"Arabian","More pure than a tear."
"Arabian","More greedy than Asha'ab."
"Arabian","More observant than a crow."
"Arabian","The end of life is death."
"Arabian","more lost then the winter moon."
"Arabian","More kindhearted than a mother to her children."
"Arabian","More jinxed than Al Basoos."
"Arabian","More hideous than the disappearence of good fortune."
"Arabian","More hideous than an ogre."
"Arabian","More hideous than a say without a do."
"Arabian","More hideous than a pig."
"Arabian","More permanent than a tattoo."
"Arabian","The stupid might have wanted to help you, but ended up hurting you."
"Arabian","The ropeman got mixed with the archer."
"Arabian","The wrath of brothers is fierce and devilish."
"Arabian","The wound that bleeds inwardly is the most dangerous."
"Arabian","The wound that bleedeth inwardly is the most dangerous."
"Arabian","The wound of words is worse than the wound of swords."
"Arabian","The white penny will become useful in your dark days."
"Arabian","The whisper of a pretty girl can be heard further than the roar of a lion."
"Arabian","They did not find a fault in the rose, they said O! you are red checked."
"Arabian","The village's piper does not exhilarate."
"Arabian","They planted so we ate, and we plant so they would eat."
"Arabian","The stone which cannot be lifted should be kissed."
"Arabian","The stingy has a big porch and little morality."
"Arabian","The son of a duck is a floater."
"Arabian","The smarter you get the fewer words you'd say."
"Arabian","The sky does not rain gold or silver."
"Arabian","The sinning is the best part of repentance."
"Arabian","The devil is cunning."
"Arabian","The weapon first, fighting second."
"Arabian","Thought he was a great catch, turns out he is a shackle."
"Arabian","Meeting death is better than trying to ignore it."
"Arabian","To put taghi's hat on naghi's head."
"Arabian","Time is made of gold."
"Arabian","Time is like a sword. If you did not cut it, it will cut you."
"Arabian","Time has eaten and drank upon it."
"Arabian","Tighter than a needle's eye."
"Arabian","Tie your camel and rely on God."
"Arabian","The young goose is a good swimmer."
"Arabian","Threaten him with death so that he may be content with fever."
"Arabian","The rope of lies is short."
"Arabian","Though pepper is a tiny thing, its taste is mighty powerful."
"Arabian","Those who are far from the eye are far from the heart."
"Arabian","This dead person is not worth all of this grief."
"Arabian","This cub is from that lion."
"Arabian","Think of the going out before you enter."
"Arabian","They whom got shy, died."
"Arabian","They were two, but united; we were a hundred, but divided."
"Arabian","Three things to fear: a crumbling wall, an angry dog, and a shrew."
"Arabian","The fruit of timidity is neither gain nor loss."
"Arabian","The secret to success is to walk forward."
"Arabian","The ideal phrase is that which is short and to the point."
"Arabian","The idea came after the drunkness passed away."
"Arabian","The horse knows its knight the best."
"Arabian","The hand of God is with the group."
"Arabian","The greatest poorness is the lack of brains."
"Arabian","The goat does not get fat just by whispering."
"Arabian","the key to all things is determination."
"Arabian","The frying-pan says to the kettle, ""Avaunt, black brows!"""
"Arabian","The knife of the family does not cut."
"Arabian","The fruit of silence is tranquility."
"Arabian","The fool has his answer on the tip of his tongue."
"Arabian","The envious was created only to be infuriated."
"Arabian","The envious person is a sad person."
"Arabian","The enemy of my enemy is my friend."
"Arabian","The end of the HONK is BEEP."
"Arabian","The end of the grape cluster."
"Arabian","The garlic said to the onion: 'you stink.'"
"Arabian","The mule was asked: ""Who is your father?"" It responded with: ""The horse is my uncle."""
"Arabian","The purest people are the ones with good manners."
"Arabian","The person who pours water to other is the last one to drink."
"Arabian","The pebble comes from the mountain."
"Arabian","The only trick the incapable has, are his tears."
"Arabian","The only more dear to you than your child, is your child's child."
"Arabian","The onion of the beloved is a sheep."
"Arabian","The one-eyed person is a beauty in the country of the blind."
"Arabian","The jar broke and the wine spilled."
"Arabian","The neighbour comes before the home."
"Arabian","Today is wine, and tomorrow is an assignment. Today we will drink wine, and tomorrow we will work hard."
"Arabian","The most praised form of fluency is silence when talk isn't wise."
"Arabian","The monkey in his mother's eye is a gazelle."
"Arabian","The mistake of the scientist leads to mistakes by many people."
"Arabian","The mind is for seeing, the heart is for hearing."
"Arabian","The man who wanted to milk the male goat failed."
"Arabian","The man and his woman is like the grave and its dead."
"Arabian","The living is more important than the dead."
"Arabian","The one without a sword gets humiliated."
"Arabian","If begging should unfortunately be your lot, knock at the large gates only."
"Arabian","If we are both masters, then who shall lead the mules?"
"Arabian","If there were no tears, our ribs would burn."
"Arabian","If the king says that it is night in the middle of the day, look up at the stars."
"Arabian","IF the camel once gets his nose in the tent, his body will soon follow."
"Arabian","If someone says ""There is a wedding ceremony in the clouds,"" then the women would soon arrive with their ladders."
"Arabian","If power is for sale, sell your mother to buy it. You can always buy her back again."
"Arabian","Only the tent pitched by your own hands will stand."
"Arabian","If I had two loaves of bread, I would sell one and buy hyacinths, for they would feed my soul."
"Arabian","If you buy cheap meat, you'll smell what you have saved when it boils."
"Arabian","If a wife is unfaithful then the husband is partly to blame."
"Arabian","If a rich man ate a snake, they would say it was because of his wisdom; if a poor man ate it, they would say it was because of his stupidity."
"Arabian","If a poor man ate it, they would say it was because of his stupidity."
"Arabian","If a man's mouth were silent, then another part would speak."
"Arabian","If a man believes in a stone, that stone will serve him well."
"Arabian","If a dog offers to help you across the river, don't ask if he is suffering from the mange."
"Arabian","I came to the place of my birth and cried, ""The friends of my youth, where are they?"" And echo answered, ""Where are they?"""
"Arabian","If man be a river, then woman will be a bridge."
"Arabian","If you hear that a mountain has moved, believe; but if you hear that a man has changed his character, believe it not."
"Arabian","In the small lanes there are no brothers or friends."
"Arabian","In the presence of Fate, the physician becomes a fool."
"Arabian","In the desert of life the wise travel by caravan, while the fool prefers to travel alone."
"Arabian","In order to really love someone you must love him as though he was going to die tomorrow."
"Arabian","If your neighbor visits Mecca once, watch out for him. If he makes a second visit, you had better avoid him. After the third visit you had better move to another street."
"Arabian","If you want to take revenge on a man, send him a really beautiful woman."
"Arabian","If you want to kill a snake, chop off its head."
"Arabian","If you are a friend of the captain, you can wipe your hands on the sail."
"Arabian","If you stop every time a dog barks, your road will never end."
"Arabian","If you are offered a bull, do not ask how much milk he will give."
"Arabian","If you have never seen evil, look closely at yourself some time."
"Arabian","If you have much, give of your wealth; if you have little, give of your heart."
"Arabian","If you have given away much of your wealth, then you have given a little of your heart."
"Arabian","If you give in to a fool, he will say, ""This is because they are afraid of me."""
"Arabian","If you don't know where you are going, look back to where you've come from."
"Arabian","If you cannot take things by the head, then take them by the tail."
"Arabian","He who would visit a vice, never has far to travel."
"Arabian","If you want to hit your mother-in-law, be sure to split her head."
"Arabian","He promised me earrings, but then only pierced my ears."
"Arabian","I am a prince and you are a prince; who will lead the donkeys?."
"Arabian","He who has been bitten by a snake is scared of a rope on the ground."
"Arabian","He who has approved of wrongdoing is as guilty as he who has committed it."
"Arabian","He who foretells the future lies, even if he tells the truth."
"Arabian","He who eats alone chokes alone."
"Arabian","He that plants thorns must never expect to gather roses."
"Arabian","He that has no money has no friends."
"Arabian","He who has health has hope; and he who has hope, has everything."
"Arabian","He that counts his friend's mistakes will be abandoned by him."
"Arabian","He who is a slave of truth is a free man."
"Arabian","He left us and we rejoiced; then an even more unbearable person came."
"Arabian","He hit me, started to cry, and went straight to the judge to sue me."
"Arabian","He gets his passage for nothing and then winks at the captain's wife."
"Arabian","He fled from the rain and sat down under the waterspout."
"Arabian","He fasted for a whole year and then broke his fast with an onion."
"Arabian","Haste is the invention of the devil."
"Arabian","Habit is the sixth sense that dominates the other five."
"Arabian","He that has long legs will go far."
"Arabian","He who plants thorns must never expect to gather roses."
"Arabian","It is better to cut off the head that has no pride."
"Arabian","He who wants to sell his honor will always find a buyer."
"Arabian","He who walks through a field of onions, will smell like an onion."
"Arabian","He who walks alone shall surely arrive first."
"Arabian","He who uses bad incense must be careful not to burn his sleeves."
"Arabian","He who steals an egg will steal a camel."
"Arabian","He who starts a lawsuit makes a hole in the dike."
"Arabian","He who has health has hope, and he who has hope has every thing."
"Arabian","He who predicts the future lies, even if he tells the truth."
"Arabian","Heaven on earth is to be found on horseback, reading books and between a woman's breasts."
"Arabian","He who peeps at the neighbor's window may chance to lose his eyes."
"Arabian","He who only thinks about what is in his belly is worth less than what comes out of it."
"Arabian","He who loves thinks that the others are blind; the others think that he is crazy."
"Arabian","He who looks up too much gets a pain in the neck."
"Arabian","He who lives in a glass house should not throw stones."
"Arabian","He who lies for you will lie about you."
"Arabian","He who knows not and knows not that he knows not is a fool. Shun him. He who knows not and knows that he knows not is a child. Teach him. He who knows and knows not that he knows is asleep. Wake him. He who knows and knows that he knows is a wise man. Follow him."
"Arabian","He who sees the calamity of other people finds his own calamity light."
"Arabian","Moustaches hide the imperfections of the mouth."
"Arabian","Men laugh with their heart, women only with their mouth."
"Arabian","No crowd ever waited at the gates of patience."
"Arabian","Never trust a fool with a sword."
"Arabian","Never tell your friends what your enemy may not hear."
"Arabian","Never speak ill of the dead."
"Arabian","Never sit in the place of a man who can say to you, ""Rise.""."
"Arabian","Never give advice in a crowd."
"Arabian","No man is a good physician who has never been sick."
"Arabian","My debtor is a worse payer even than I am."
"Arabian","Wit is folly unless a wise man hath the keeping of it."
"Arabian","Most people forget everything except being ungrateful."
"Arabian","More than one war has been caused by a single word."
"Arabian","Money can build roads in the sea."
"Arabian","Mistrust before you trust."
"Arabian","Misfortune is easier to bear if you share it with many others."
"Arabian","Men must sew up tears with gentleness."
"Arabian","Insults must be written in sand and compliments carved in stone."
"Arabian","Never celebrate someone's leaving, until you know who will succeed him."
"Arabian","Once you have found your rhythm, you will then know your God."
"Arabian","Only he who understands is really sad."
"Arabian","Only death itself can end our hope."
"Arabian","Only a mother can understand the suffering of a son."
"Arabian","One is not born a warrior, you become one."
"Arabian","One hand for oneself and one for the ship."
"Arabian","One hand cannot applaud."
"Arabian","One day in perfect health is a lot."
"Arabian","No cure, no pay."
"Arabian","One coin in the money box makes more noise than when it is full."
"Arabian","Men fear, but time fears the pyramids."
"Arabian","Once you have decided to hit someone, then hit them hard because the retribution will be the same whether you hit hard or not."
"Arabian","On the first of March, the crows begin to search."
"Arabian","On the day of victory no one is tired."
"Arabian","Older than you by a day, wiser than you by a year."
"Arabian","Obedience to a woman leads to hell."
"Arabian","A foolish man may be known by six things: Anger without cause, speech without profit, change without progress, inquiry without object, putting trust in a stranger, and mistaking foes for friends."
"Arabian","Not to use trickery is also trickery."
"Arabian","One coin in the money-box makes more noise than when it is full."
"Arabian","It may be a fire today -- tomorrow it will be ashes."
"Arabian","Men learn little from success, but much from failure."
"Arabian","Lending nourishes bad feeling."
"Arabian","Knowledge is a treasure, but practice is the key to it."
"Arabian","Knowledge acquired as a child is more lasting than an engraving on stone."
"Arabian","Know each other as if your were brothers; negotiate deals as if you were strangers to each other."
"Arabian","Kiss the hand of your enemy if you cannot chop it off: Envy has no rest."
"Arabian","Judge not of a ship as she lies on the stocks."
"Arabian","Lies are accepted once, not twice."
"Arabian","It's all fate and chance."
"Arabian","Life, like a fire, begins in smoke and ends in ashes."
"Arabian","It makes no sense to try to forge the iron whilst it is still cold."
"Arabian","It is not the bullet that kills you, it is fate."
"Arabian","It is good to know the truth, but it is better to speak of palm trees."
"Arabian","It is good to know the truth and to speak the truth. It is even better to know the truth and speak about palm trees."
"Arabian","It is easier not to commit a sin than to repent it."
"Arabian","It is better to die in revenge than to live on in shame."
"Arabian","Good deeds banish bad ones."
"Arabian","Judge a man by the reputation of his enemies."
"Arabian","Make do with bread and butter until God can bring you jam."
"Arabian","Meat and mass never hindered man."
"Arabian","Measure your guilt, then stretch your legs."
"Arabian","Meaningless laughter is a sign of ill-breeding."
"Arabian","Marriage is like a besieged castle; those who are on the outside wish to get in; and those who are on the inside wish to get out."
"Arabian","Many are the roads that do not lead to the heart."
"Arabian","Mankind is made out of forgetfulness."
"Arabian","Man was created in a hurry."
"Arabian","Let the sword decide only after the plan has failed."
"Arabian","Make your bargain before beginning to plow."
"Arabian","It is a sign of weakness just to let things happen."
"Arabian","Lying and stealing are next door neighbors."
"Arabian","Love sees clearly, hate even more so, but jealousy sees the most clear, because it is equal to love plus hate."
"Arabian","Love makes a man both blind and deaf."
"Arabian","Love lasts as long as does the reproach."
"Arabian","Look and keep silent, and if you are eating meat, tell the world it's fish."
"Arabian","Live together like brothers and do business like strangers."
"Arabian","Light your lamp first at home and afterwards at the mosque."
"Arabian","Man is like a palm on the beach; moving with the wind of life."
"Arabian","A thousand curses never tore a shirt."
"Arabian","A mule who goes in search of a fine set of antlers, will come back with his ears cut off."
"Arabian","After lunch, rest; after dinner take a walk."
"Arabian","After dinner, rest; after supper walk a mile."
"Arabian","Advice given in the midst of a crowd is loathsome."
"Arabian","Act like you are an idiot and everyone will respect you."
"Arabian","A woman's mosque is her home."
"Arabian","A woman's belly is a garden with many kinds of fruit."
"Arabian","All kinds of fame belong partly to others."
"Arabian","A wise man associating with the vicious becomes an idiot; a dog traveling with good men becomes a rational being."
"Arabian","All mankind is divided into three classes: those that are immoveable, those that are moveable, and those that move."
"Arabian","A sponge to wipe away the past; a rose to sweeten the present; a kiss to greet the future."
"Arabian","A small tumbledown house is better than a communal palace."
"Arabian","A sense of humor is the pole that adds balance to our steps as we walk the tightrope of life."
"Arabian","A secret is like a dove: when it leaves my hand it takes wing."
"Arabian","A scholar's ink is worth as much as the blood of the martyr."
"Arabian","A promise is a cloud; fulfillment is the rain."
"Arabian","Ask thy purse what thou should'st buy."
"Arabian","A wise man's day is worth a fool's life."
"Arabian","An old lion will be mocked by the dogs."
"Arabian","Great care is no defense against Fate."
"Arabian","Ask me what are my virtues, not about the color of my skin."
"Arabian","Ask for your wife's advice and then do the opposite."
"Arabian","Ask advice of an ignorant man and he will think you are his enemy."
"Arabian","Arrogance is a weed that grows mostly on a dunghill."
"Arabian","Arrogance diminishes wisdom."
"Arabian","Any water in the desert will do."
"Arabian","All earthly goods we have only on loan."
"Arabian","An unjust king is like a river without water."
"Arabian","A mule can go to Mecca, but it will not come back as a pilgrim."
"Arabian","An insult is but a short garment: it reveals the one who wears it."
"Arabian","An imbecile can manage his own affairs better than a wise man the affairs of other people."
"Arabian","An eloquent cock crows as soon as it comes out of the egg."
"Arabian","An army of sheep led by a lion would defeat an army of lions led by a sheep."
"Arabian","Allah does not love the aggressors."
"Arabian","All sunshine makes the desert."
"Arabian","All sunchine makes the desert."
"Arabian","Another man's bread will not fill your belly."
"Arabian","A fable is a bridge that leads to truth."
"Arabian","A poor man would like to have some fun, but he cannot find the right place."
"Arabian","A good orator makes us see with our ears."
"Arabian","A good man is one who rejoices in the well-being of others."
"Arabian","A good deed dies when it is spoken about."
"Arabian","A friend is known when needed."
"Arabian","A friend advises in his interest, not yours."
"Arabian","A foolish man may be known by six things: Anger without cause, speech without profit, change without progress, inquiry without object, putting trust in a stranger, and mistaking foes for friends."
"Arabian","A hand that has been chopped off cannot steal any more."
"Arabian","A fable is a bridge which leads to truth."
"Arabian","A heart free from care is better than a full purse."
"Arabian","A change is as good as a rest."
"Arabian","A chameleon does not leave one tree until he is sure of another."
"Arabian","A borrowed cloak does not keep one warm."
"Arabian","A book that remains shut, is but a block."
"Arabian","A book is like a garden carried in the pocket."
"Arabian","A book is a garden carried in the pocket."
"Arabian","After dinner, rest; after supper walk a mile."
"Arabian","A fat woman is a blanket for the winter."
"Arabian","A learned man without work is a cloud without rain."
"Arabian","A mouth that praises and a hand that kills."
"Arabian","A man's worth depends on his two smallest organs: his heart and his tongue."
"Arabian","A man who was always complaining was quite rightly sent to hell. ""Why are you burning damp wood?"" was his first comment."
"Arabian","A man profits more by the sight of an idiot than by the orations of the learned."
"Arabian","A man cannot be a good physician if he has never been sick himself."
"Arabian","A little debt makes a debtor, a great one an enemy."
"Arabian","A little body doth often harbour a great soul."
"Arabian","A grateful dog has more worth than an ungrateful man."
"Arabian","A little and a little, collected together, becomes a great deal; the heap in the barn consists of single grains, and drop and rop makes an inundation."
"Arabian","At the narrow passage there is no brother and no friend."
"Arabian","A lazy man will be an astrologer."
"Arabian","A known mistake is better than an unknown truth."
"Arabian","A kind word can attract even the snake from his nest."
"Arabian","A kind speech and forgiveness is better than alms followed by injury."
"Arabian","A house divided cannot stand."
"Arabian","A horse that will not carry a saddle must have no oats."
"Arabian","A horse of good breed is not dishonored by his saddle."
"Arabian","A little bird wants but a little nest."
"Arabian","Even the one-eyed man winks to women."
"Arabian","Do not tell a friend anything you would conceal from an enemy."
"Arabian","Everything is small at the beginning and then grows; except trouble, which is big at the beginning and still grows."
"Arabian","Every sun has to set."
"Arabian","Every head has its own kind of headache."
"Arabian","Every future is not far away."
"Arabian","Every dog is a great barker at the door of his own house."
"Arabian","Every day of your life is a page of your history."
"Arabian","Examine what is said, not him who speaks."
"Arabian","Every age has its book."
"Arabian","Example is better than precept."
"Arabian","Eat whatever you like, but dress as others do."
"Arabian","Eat whatever thou likest, but dress as others do."
"Arabian","Dwell not upon thy weariness, thy strength shall be according to the measure of thy desire."
"Arabian","Doubt is the key to all knowledge."
"Arabian","Don't think you are eloquent just because a fool applauds you."
"Arabian","Don't pour away your water on the strength of a mirage."
"Arabian","Ask the experienced rather than the learned."
"Arabian","Every ambitious man is a captive and every covetous one a pauper."
"Arabian","Four things come not back -- the spoken word, the sped arrow, the past life, and the neglected opportunity."
"Arabian","Nothing but a handful of dust will fill the eyes of man."
"Arabian","God sells knowledge for labor -- honor for risk."
"Arabian","God has spared the naked man from washing his clothes with soap."
"Arabian","God grant us no neighbor with two eyes."
"Arabian","God gave the giraffe a long neck so that He would not have to bend the palm tree."
"Arabian","God bless him who pays visits -- short visits."
"Arabian","Go and wake up your cook."
"Arabian","Evil people know one another."
"Arabian","Give a man some cloth and he'll ask for some lining."
"Arabian","Do not stand in a place of danger trusting in miracles."
"Arabian","Forgiveness is more satisfying than revenge."
"Arabian","Follow the advice of the one who makes you cry, not from the one who makes you laugh."
"Arabian","Fear the person who fears you."
"Arabian","Fear not the man who fears God."
"Arabian","Fate loves a rebel."
"Arabian","Experiences are the spectacles of intellect."
"Arabian","Excuses are always mixed with lies."
"Arabian","Give me wool and tomorrow you will have a sheep."
"Arabian","Better a thousand enemies outside the tent than one within."
"Arabian","Do not tell secrets in front of servants."
"Arabian","Both the fast and the slow will meet each other on the ferry boat."
"Arabian","Blind eyes see better than blind hearts."
"Arabian","Beware: some liars tell the truth."
"Arabian","Beware the man who lavishes too much praise on you, he will later run you down."
"Arabian","Beware of one who flatters unduly; he will also censure unjustly."
"Arabian","Better to have bread and an onion with peace than stuffed fowl with strife."
"Arabian","Call someone your lord and he'll sell you in the slave market."
"Arabian","Better make profit out of manure than losses with musk."
"Arabian","Children are buttonholes that hold their parents together."
"Arabian","Better a handful of dry dates and content therewith than to own the Gate of Peacocks and be kicked in the eye by a broody camel."
"Arabian","Believe what you see and lay aside what you hear."
"Arabian","Beauty never travels in a group."
"Arabian","Beauty is power."
"Arabian","Beauty doesn't exist, men only dream it."
"Arabian","Be sure to have a controversial opinion, and men will talk about you."
"Arabian","Attend funerals avoid weddings."
"Arabian","Better to be a free dog than a caged lion."
"Arabian","Death is a black camel which kneels at every man's gate."
"Arabian","Do not stand in a dangerous place trusting in miracles."
"Arabian","Do not ridicule the thin-bearded when you yourself have no beard."
"Arabian","Do not cut down the tree that gives you shade."
"Arabian","Do not buy either the moon or the news, for in the end they will both come out."
"Arabian","Discord between the powerful is a fortune for the poor."
"Arabian","Diligence is the mother of good luck."
"Arabian","Diligence is a great teacher."
"Arabian","Bravery without intelligence is not bravery."
"Arabian","Death rides a fast camel."
"Arabian","Good qualities never cancel out the bad, just as sugar is no antidote for poison."
"Arabian","Death is a black camel that lies down at every door. Sooner or later you must ride the camel."
"Arabian","Dawn does not come twice to awaken a man."
"Arabian","Dawn does not come to awaken a man a second time."
"Arabian","Curses are like young chickens, And still come home to roost."
"Arabian","Conversation is like making love; the man is the question, the woman the answer, and the union of both will bear fruit."
"Arabian","Compete, don't envy."
"Arabian","Choose your neighbor before your house and your companion before the road."
"Arabian","Death was afraid of him because he had the heart of a lion."
"Arabian","Diligence is a great teacher."
"Arabian","Better a handful of dry dates and content therewith than to own the Gate of Peacocks and be kicked in the eye by a broody camel."
"Arabian","Dwell not upon thy weariness, thy strength shall be according to the measure of thy desire."
"Arabian","Doubt is the key to all knowledge."
"Arabian","Don't pour away your water due to a mirage."
"Arabian","Don't celebrate someone's departing unless you know who will succeed him."
"Arabian","Do not tell a friend anything you would conceal from an enemy."
"Arabian","Do not stand in a place of danger trusting in miracles."
"Arabian","Examine what is said, not who is speaking."
"Arabian","Diligence is the mother of good luck."
"Arabian","Example is better than law."
"Arabian","Death was afraid of him because he had the heart of a lion."
"Arabian","Death is a black camel which kneels at every man's gate."
"Arabian","Death is a black camel that lies down at every door. Sooner or later you must ride the camel."
"Arabian","Compete, don't envy."
"Arabian","Cleanse thy heart from greed, and thy foot shall remain free from fetters."
"Arabian","Beware of one who flatters unduly; he will also censure unjustly."
"Arabian","If begging should unfortunately be thy lot, knock at the large gates only."
"Arabian","Do not cut down the tree that gives you shade."
"Arabian","He who eats alone chokes alone."
"Arabian","Wishing does not make a poor man rich."
"Arabian","I am a prince and you are a prince; who will lead the donkeys?."
"Arabian","How tight can life be without the space of hope."
"Arabian","How can the person who is eating dates prohibit the eating of dates? It's better to be a free dog than a caged lion."
"Arabian","He who wants to sell his honor will always find a buyer. The garlic complained to the onion, ""You stink!"" If you count your friend's mistakes, he will desert you. Many wars have been caused by a single word."
"Arabian","He who speaks about the future lies, even when he tells the truth."
"Arabian","He who plants thorns must never expect to gather roses."
"Arabian","Examine what is said, not him who speaks."
"Arabian","He who has health, has hope. And he who has hope, has everything."
"Arabian","Ask the experienced rather than the learned."
"Arabian","Habit is the sixth sense that dominates the other five."
"Arabian","Greed lessens what is gathered."
"Arabian","Good to sell knowledge for labor, honor for risk."
"Arabian","God sells knowledge for labour -- honour for risk."
"Arabian","Four things come not back -- the spoken word, the sped arrow, the past life, and the neglected opportunity."
"Arabian","Fortune is with you for an hour, and against you for ten."
"Arabian","Fear not the man who fears God."
"Arabian","He who has health, has hope; and he who has hope, has everything."
"Arabian","You know a man by the sweat of his brow and the strength of his word."
"Arabian","Better a hundred enemies outside the house than one inside."
"Arabian","Youths are like waves of the sea, the elderly have strength instead of tide."
"Arabian","Youth is a kind of illness cured only by the passing years."
"Arabian","Your tongue is like a horse -- if you take care of it, it takes care of you; if you treat it badly, it treats you badly."
"Arabian","Your friend will swallow your mistakes, your enemy will present them on a plate."
"Arabian","You won't gain knowledge by drinking ink."
"Arabian","You will get no nourishment from the flesh of a woman."
"Arabian","A book is like a garden carried in the pocket."
"Arabian","You may forget with whom you laughed, but you will never forget with whom you wept."
"Arabian","None but a mule denies his family."
"Arabian","You cannot carry two watermelons in one hand."
"Arabian","You can always find good elements in the misfortune that strikes you."
"Arabian","You are like a tree, giving your shade to the outside."
"Arabian","Write the bad things that are done to you in sand, but write the good things that happen to you on a piece of marble."
"Arabian","Wrath begins in madness and ends in repentance."
"Arabian","Words from the heart reach the heart, words from the mouth reach the ear."
"Arabian","Without the companionship even paradise would be boring."
"Arabian","You only own that which you have earned."
"Arabian","A promise is a cloud; fulfillment is rain."
"Arabian","Ask me what are my virtues, not about the color of my skin."
"Arabian","An army of sheep led by a lion would defeat an army of lions led by a sheep."
"Arabian","All sunshine makes a desert."
"Arabian","All strangers are relations to each other."
"Arabian","All mankind is divided into three classes: those that are immovable, those that are moveable, and those that move."
"Arabian","A wise man's day is worth a fool's life."
"Arabian","A wise man associating with the vicious becomes an idiot; a dog travelling with good men becomes a rational being."
"Arabian","Only three things in life are certain birth, death and change."
"Arabian","A sense of humor is the pole that adds balance to our steps as we walk the tightrope of life."
"Arabian","If I were to trade in winding sheets, no one would die."
"Arabian","A man profits more by the sight of an idiot than by the orations of the learned."
"Arabian","A little debt makes a debtor, a great one an enemy."
"Arabian","A little body doth often harbour a great soul."
"Arabian","A little bird wants but a little nest."
"Arabian","A little and a little, collected together, becomes a great deal; the heap in the barn consists of single grains, and drop and drop makes an inundation."
"Arabian","A kind word can attract even the snake from his nest."
"Arabian","A friend is known when needed."
"Arabian","A thousand curses never tore a shirt."
"Arabian","The tree of silence bears the fruit of peace."
"Arabian","The difficult is done at once, the impossible takes a little longer."
"Arabian","Those who foretell the future lies, even if he tells the truth."
"Arabian","Think of the going out before you enter."
"Arabian","They wooed her and she resisted; they neglected her and she fell in love."
"Arabian","There is no greater misfortune than your own."
"Arabian","There has to be a first time for everything -- even the most natural habits."
"Arabian","There are no fans in hell."
"Arabian","Throw a lucky man into the sea, and he will come up with a fish in his mouth."
"Arabian","The whisper of a pretty girl can be heard further than the roar of a lion."
"Arabian","Throw a resourceful person into a river, and he will probably come out with a fish in his hand."
"Arabian","The sinning is the best part of repentance."
"Arabian","The person who predicts the future is lying, even when he is right."
"Arabian","The hasty hand catches frogs for fish."
"Arabian","The hasty angler loses the fish."
"Arabian","The hasty and the tardy meet at the ferry."
"Arabian","The enemy of my enemy is my friend."
"Arabian","I came to the place of my birth and cried, ""The friends of my youth, where are they?"" And echo answered, ""Where are they?"""
"Arabian","The words of tongue should have three gate keepers."
"Arabian","When you have spoken the word, it reigns over you. When it is unspoken you reign over it."
"Arabian","A debacle demolishes the will."
"Arabian","A change is as good as a rest."
"Arabian","A chameleon does not leave one tree until he is sure of another."
"Arabian","A book is like a garden carried in the pocket."
"Arabian","A bite from a lion is better the look of envy."
"Arabian","You won't gain knowledge by drinking ink."
"Arabian","Wishing does not make a poor man rich."
"Arabian","Throw a lucky man in the sea, and he will come up with a fish in his mouth."
"Arabian","Who works achieves and who sows reaps."
"Arabian","The different sorts of madness are innumerable."
"Arabian","When you are an anvil be patient; when a hammer, strike"
"Arabian","When danger approaches, sing to it."
"Arabian","Trust makes way for treachery."
"Arabian","Trust in God, but tie your camel."
"Arabian","Trust Allah, but tie up your camel."
"Arabian","Today it may be a fire, tomorrow it will be ashes."
"Arabian","Throw dirt enough, and some will stick."
"Arabian","Wisdom consists of ten parts: nine parts silence, and one part a few words."
"Arabian","It's better to have a thousand enemies outside of the tent than one inside the tent."
"Arabian","The dogs bark, but the caravan moves on."
"Arabian","Lying and stealing are next door neighbors."
"Arabian","Live together like brothers and do business like strangers."
"Arabian","Let the sword decide after the stratagem has failed."
"Arabian","Knowledge is a treasure, but practice is the key to it."
"Arabian","Knowledge acquired as a child is more lasting than an engraving on stone."
"Arabian","Know each other as if your were brothers; negotiate deals as if you were strangers to each other."
"Arabian","Marriage is like a besieged castle; those who are on the outside wish to get in; and those who are on the inside wish to get out."
"Arabian","Judge a man by the reputation of his enemies."
"Arabian","Never give advice in a crowd."
"Arabian","It is good to know the truth, but it is better to speak of palm trees."
"Arabian","If you stop every time a dog barks, your road will never end."
"Arabian","If you have much, give of your wealth; if you have little, give of your heart."
"Arabian","If you don't know where you are going, then look back to where you have come from."
"Arabian","If you buy cheap meat, when it boils you smell what you have saved."
"Arabian","If the camel once get his nose in the tent, his body will follow."
"Arabian","If power is for sale, sell your mother to buy it. You can always buy her back again."
"Arabian","Judge not of a ship as she lies on the stocks."
"Arabian","Prayer is the pillow of religion."
"Arabian","The benefits you get become the debts you owe to others."
"Arabian","The barber learns his trade on the orphan's chin."
"Arabian","Sunshine all the time makes a desert."
"Arabian","Sins of omission are seldom fun."
"Arabian","Sinning is the best part of repentance."
"Arabian","Silence is the best answer to the stupid. The fool has his answer on the tip of his tongue."
"Arabian","Seek counsel of him who makes you weep, and not of him who makes you laugh."
"Arabian","Marriage is like a besieged castle; those who are on the outside wish to get in; and those who are on the inside wish to get out."
"Arabian","Salt will never be worm-eaten."
"Arabian","A book is a garden carried in the pocket."
"Arabian","Patience is the key of joy; but haste is the key to sorrow."
"Arabian","Pardon is the choicest flower of victory."
"Arabian","One is better off seated than standing. lying than seated, asleep than awake, and dead than alive."
"Arabian","One coin in the money-box makes more noise than when it is full."
"Arabian","Nothing but a handful of dust will fill the eyes of man."
"Arabian","None but a mule denies his family."
"Arabian","No man is a good physician who has never been sick."
"Arabian","Search knowledge though it be in China."
"Arabian","The English are a nation of shopkeepers."
"Arabian","The greatest tranquility is when we desire nothing."
"Arabian","The grave is our mother."
"Arabian","The frying-pan says to the kettle, ""Avaunt, black brows!"""
"Arabian","The fruit of timidity is neither gain nor loss."
"Arabian","The fruit of silence is tranquility."
"Arabian","The fool has his answer on the tip of his tongue."
"Arabian","The first will get the credit, even if the second is better."
"Arabian","The fire is winter's fruit."
"Arabian","The soul of a fool is always dancing on the tip of his tongue."
"Arabian","The excess of one is the shortage of another."
"Arabian","The hasty angler loses the fish."
"Arabian","The enemy of my enemy is my friend."
"Arabian","The dry reed does not seek the company of fire."
"Arabian","The dreams of a cat are full of mice."
"Arabian","The doorstep weeps for forty days whenever a girl is born."
"Arabian","The dogs may bark but the caravan moves on."
"Arabian","The dogs bark, but the caravan moves on."
"Arabian","The difficult is done at once, the impossible takes a little longer."
"Arabian","The different sorts of madness are innumerable."
"Arabian","The eyes are of little use if the mind be blind."
"Arabian","The mind is for seeing, the heart is for hearing."
"Arabian","The slave must be content with the joys of his master."
"Arabian","Whoever lives within himself is burning with love."
"Arabian","The rope of a lie is short."
"Arabian","A book that remains shut, is but a block."
"Arabian","The one-eyed person is a beauty in the country of the blind."
"Arabian","The nail supports the hoof, the hoof the horse, the horse the man, the man the world."
"Arabian","The mouth of a canon is less dangerous than that of a scandalmonger."
"Arabian","The mother of someone who is killed can sleep; the mother of the murderer cannot."
"Arabian","The hand of God is with the group."
"Arabian","The monkey looks into the mirror and sees a gazelle."
"Arabian","The hasty and the tardy meet at the ferry."
"Arabian","The men are the wool of the tribe, but the women are the ones who weave the pattern."
"Arabian","The man with no patience waits for daylight, and when it comes he'll be blind."
"Arabian","The lion said: I am the best one to take care of my business."
"Arabian","The liar's mother is a virgin."
"Arabian","The knife of the family does not cut."
"Arabian","The ink of a scholar is worth as much as the martyr's blood."
"Arabian","The house of danger is built upon the borders of safety."
"Arabian","The hasty hand catches frogs for fish."
"Arabian","The cure for bad times is patience."
"Arabian","The most useful holy war is the one fought against your own passions."
"Arabian","Righteousness is half of religion."
"Arabian","The devil tempts all men, but idle men tempt the devil."
"Arabian","Silence is a brother of delight."
"Arabian","Show no fear to the man who picks up a big stone."
"Arabian","Shallow waters mak' maist din."
"Arabian","Shall the gosling teach the goose to swim?"
"Arabian","Seven trades but no luck."
"Arabian","Seven days king, seven days minister, slave for the rest of your life."
"Arabian","Seek counsel of him who makes you weep, and not of him who makes you laugh."
"Arabian","Silence is the best answer to the stupid. The fool has his answer on the tip of his tongue."
"Arabian","Salt will never be worm-eaten."
"Arabian","Silence is the interpreter of happiness."
"Arabian","Reproaches are the soap of the heart."
"Arabian","Rather the cruelty of the Turks than the justice of the Bedouins."
"Arabian","Rather a slip of the foot than a slip of the pen."
"Arabian","Put things into their places, and they will put you into your place."
"Arabian","Proverbs are the lamp of speech."
"Arabian","Play alone and you're bound to win."
"Arabian","Peace is only possible after war."
"Arabian","Patience is beautiful."
"Arabian","Pardon is the choicest flower of victory."
"Arabian","Search knowledge though it be in China."
"Arabian","Talent without skill is like a desert without an oasis."
"Arabian","The sinning is the best part of repentance."
"Arabian","The corn will bend but it still ends up in the mill."
"Arabian","The chameleon does not leave one tree until he is sure of another."
"Arabian","The best part of repentance is a little sinning."
"Arabian","The best act of generosity is that which is quickly done."
"Arabian","The benefits you get become the debts you owe to others."
"Arabian","The barber learns to shave on the orphan's face."
"Arabian","The awakening of a giant shakes the world."
"Arabian","Silence is a cure for grief."
"Arabian","The angry hammer works off his fury on the steel."
"Arabian","The dawn does not come twice to awaken a man."
"Arabian","Sunshine without rain makes a desert."
"Arabian","Sunshine all the time makes a desert."
"Arabian","Spurs that are too sharp make even the mule rear."
"Arabian","Spirit is the sword and experience the sharpening stone."
"Arabian","Sometimes even the intestine and the stomach disagree."
"Arabian","So long as the pot is boiling, friendship will stay warm."
"Arabian","So long as I can keep a secret it is my prisoner. If I let it slip then I am its prisoner."
"Arabian","Sins of omission are seldom fun."
"Arabian","Sinning is the best part of repentance."
"Arabian","The ass went seeking for horns and lost his ears."
"Arabian","To you your religion and to me my religion."
"Arabian","Visit rarely, and you will be more loved."
"Arabian","Visit infrequently, and you will get closer."
"Arabian","Unwrapping a gift wraps up enmity."
"Arabian","Unfortunate is the man who has no fingernails to scratch his head with."
"Arabian","Two weaklings conquered the fort."
"Arabian","Two scorpions living in the same hole will get along better than two sisters in the same house."
"Arabian","Trust makes way for treachery."
"Arabian","Trust in God, but tie your camel."
"Arabian","There has to be a first time for everything -- even our most natural habits."
"Arabian","Trees often transplanted never prosper."
"Arabian","What is learned in youth is carved in stone."
"Arabian","To threaten the brave with death is like promising water to a duck."
"Arabian","Time is the master of him who has no master."
"Arabian","Throw him into the river and he will come up with a fish in his mouth."
"Arabian","Throw dirt enough, and some will stick."
"Arabian","The poor always smell."
"Arabian","Those who foretell the future lies, even if he tells the truth."
"Arabian","Think of the going out before you enter."
"Arabian","They have sowed the seed of the word ""tomorrow"" and it has not germinated."
"Arabian","There is no greater misfortune than your own."
"Arabian","Trust in Allah, but tie up your camel."
"Arabian","When the judge's mule dies, everyone goes to the funeral; when the judge himself dies, no one does."
"Arabian","Whoever knows how to use a pen never adds his own name to the ""guilty"" list."
"Arabian","Whoever knew you when you were small will not respect you when you're big."
"Arabian","Who does not go with you, go with him."
"Arabian","Who does not choose dies of hunger."
"Arabian","Where there is a will there is a way. Where there is no will there is an excuse."
"Arabian","Where there are poor, there are rich. But where there is justice, they are all brothers."
"Arabian","When your enemies attack, bathe in their blood."
"Arabian","When you shoot an arrow of truth, dip its point in honey."
"Arabian","When you have spoken the word, it reigns over you. When it is unspoken you reign over it."
"Arabian","Walls are the notebooks of fools."
"Arabian","When what you want doesn't happen, learn to want what does."
"Arabian","War is a disaster for winner and loser alike."
"Arabian","When God wishes a man well, He gives him insight into his faults."
"Arabian","When God shuts one door, He opens another."
"Arabian","When danger approaches, sing to it."
"Arabian","When a rich man wants children, he gets dollars, when a poor man wants dollars, he gets children."
"Arabian","When a door opens not to your knock, consider your reputation."
"Arabian","What wise men suppose is worth more than the certainties of fools."
"Arabian","What the wolf mourns is food for the fox."
"Arabian","What is learnt in the cradle lasts to the grave."
"Arabian","Those who argue with each other on the highway will often make up in the lane."
"Arabian","When you die, your sister's tears will dry as time goes on, your widow's tears will end in another's arms, but your mother will mourn you until the day she dies."
"Arabian","The world is like carrion; those who love and eat from it are dogs."
"Arabian","There are two kinds of men: those who could be happy and are not, and those who search for happiness and find it not."
"Arabian","The soul will only be at rest when it stops hoping."
"Arabian","The strength of the heart comes from the soundness of the faith."
"Arabian","The tongue of experience utters the most truth."
"Arabian","The tree of silence bears the fruits of peace."
"Arabian","The whisper of a pretty girl can be heard further off than the roar of a lion."
"Arabian","The word of the king is the king of words."
"Arabian","The words of tongue should have three gate keepers."
"Arabian","The soul of an idiot is always dancing on the end of his tongue."
"Arabian","The worst things in life are: To be in bed and sleep not, To want for one who comes not, To try to please and please not."
"Arabian","The wound of words is worse than the wound of swords."
"Arabian","The wound that bleedeth inwardly is the most dangerous."
"Arabian","The wrath of brothers is fierce and devilish."
"Arabian","The young goose is a good swimmer."
"Arabian","Throw a lucky man in the sea, and he will come up with a fish in his mouth."
"Arabian","There are five ways in which to become wise: be silent, listen, remember, grow older and study."
"Arabian","There are four things Allah cannot do: lie, deny himself, die or look favorably on sin."
"Arabian","There are some words that look like salted jam."
"Arabian","The words of the elderly are as sweet as honey, but if you do not listen they become as sour as bile."
"Arabian","Meaningless laughter is a sign of ill-breeding."
"Arabian","Give a man some cloth and he'll ask for some lining."
"Arabian","He fasted for a whole year and then broke his fast with an onion."
"Arabian","He who peeps at the neighbor's window may chance to lose his eyes."
"Arabian","He who plants thorns must never expect to gather roses."
"Arabian","He who sees the calamity of other people finds his own calamity light."
"Arabian","Every day of your life is a page of your history."
"Arabian","Many are the roads that do not lead to the heart."
"Arabian","Every ambitious man is a captive and every covetous one a pauper."
"Arabian","Measure your guilt, then stretch your legs."
"Arabian","Meat and mass never hindered man."
"Arabian","No cure, no pay."
"Arabian","Older than you by a day, wiser than you by a year."
"Arabian","One hand cannot applaud."
"Arabian","If a poor man ate it, they would say it was because of his stupidity."
"Arabian","Ask thy purse what thou should'st buy."
"Arabian","A house divided cannot stand."
"Arabian","A known mistake is better than an unknown truth."
"Arabian","A mouth that praises and a hand that kills."
"Arabian","A secret is like a dove: when it leaves my hand it takes wing."
"Arabian","A wise man associating with the vicious becomes an idiot; a dog traveling with good men becomes a rational being."
"Arabian","Arrogance diminishes wisdom."
"Arabian","Every sun has to set."
"Arabian","Ask the experienced rather than the learned."
"Arabian","Only three things in life are certain birth, death and change."
"Arabian","At the narrow passage there is no brother and no friend."
"Arabian","Believe what you see and lay aside what you hear."
"Arabian","Call someone your lord and he'll sell you in the slave market."
"Arabian","Do not buy either the moon or the news, for in the end they will both come out."
"Arabian","Eat whatever thou likest, but dress as others do."
"Arabian","Eat whatever you like, but dress as others do."
"Arabian","Arrogance is a weed that grows mostly on a dunghill."
"Arabian","When what you want doesn't happen, learn to want what does."
"Arabian","One hand for oneself and one for the ship."
"Arabian","The wrath of brothers is fierce and devilish."
"Arabian","The young goose is a good swimmer."
"Arabian","Think of the going out before you enter."
"Arabian","Visit rarely, and you will be more loved."
"Arabian","What is learned in youth is carved in stone."
"Arabian","The sinning is the best part of repentance."
"Arabian","When a door opens not to your knock, consider your reputation."
"Arabian","The one-eyed person is a beauty in the country of the blind."
"Arabian","Who does not go with you, go with him."
"Arabian","Wit is folly unless a wise man hath the keeping of it."
"Arabian","You are like a tree, giving your shade to the outside."
"Arabian","Your tongue is like a horse--if you take care of it, it takes care of you; if you treat it badly, it treats you badly."
"Arabian","A horse that will not carry a saddle must have no oats."
"Arabian","Wishing does not make a poor man rich."
"Arabian","What is learnt in the cradle lasts to the grave."
"Arabian","The fool has his answer on the tip of his tongue."
"Arabian","Patience is beautiful."
"Arabian","Proverbs are the lamp of speech."
"Arabian","Seek counsel of him who makes you weep, and not of him who makes you laugh."
"Arabian","Seven trades but no luck."
"Arabian","Shall the gosling teach the goose to swim?"
"Arabian","Shallow waters mak' maist din."
"Arabian","The wound of words is worse than the wound of swords."
"Arabian","The dogs may bark but the caravan moves on."
"Arabian","Only the tent pitched by your own hands will stand."
"Arabian","The fruit of silence is tranquility."
"Arabian","The fruit of timidity is neither gain nor loss."
"Arabian","The frying-pan says to the kettle, ""Avaunt, black brows!"""
"Arabian","The hand of God is with the group."
"Arabian","The knife of the family does not cut."
"Arabian","The mind is for seeing, the heart is for hearing."
"Arabian","The ass went seeking for horns and lost his ears."
"Arabian","A little and a little, collected together, becomes a great deal; the heap in the barn consists of single grains, and drop and drop makes an inundation."
"Arabian","Death is a black camel that lies down at every door. Sooner or later you must ride the camel."
"Arabian","The enemy of my enemy is my friend."
"Arabian","The English are a nation of shopkeepers."
"Arabian","The whisper of a pretty girl can be heard further than the roar of a lion."
"Arabian","A book is a garden carried in the pocket."
"Arabian","A book is like a garden carried in the pocket."
"Arabian","On the first of March, the crows begin to search."
"Arabian","A kind word can attract even the snake from his nest."
"Arabian","On the day of victory no one is tired."
"Arabian","A little bird wants but a little nest."
"Arabian","A promise is a cloud; fulfillment is rain."
"Arabian","A little debt makes a debtor, a great one an enemy."
"Arabian","After dinner, rest; after supper walk a mile."
"Arabian","All mankind is divided into three classes: those that are immovable, those that are moveable, and those that move."
"Arabian","Compete, don't envy."
"Arabian","A book that remains shut, is but a block."
"Arabian","Example is better than precept."
"Arabian","All sunshine makes the desert."
"Arabian","An army of sheep led by a lion would defeat an army of lions led by a sheep."
"Arabian","Dawn does not come twice to awaken a man."
"Arabian","A horse of good breed is not dishonored by his saddle."
"Arabian","Death rides a fast camel."
"Arabian","Write the bad things that are done to you in sand, but write the good things that happen to you on a piece of marble."
"Arabian","Sunshine all the time makes a desert."
"Arabian","Examine what is said, not him who speaks."
"Arabian","A man profits more by the sight of an idiot than by the orations of the learned."
"Arabian","Go and wake up your cook."
"Arabian","It is good to know the truth, but it is better to speak of palm trees."
"Arabian","Live together like brothers and do business like strangers."
"Arabian","Never give advice in a crowd."
"Arabian","Never sit in the place of a man who can say to you, ""Rise.""."
"Arabian","Never speak ill of the dead."
"Arabian","Dwell not upon thy weariness, thy strength shall be according to the measure of thy desire."
"Arabian","Trust in God, but tie your camel."
"Arabian","Sinning is the best part of repentance."
"Arabian","Sins of omission are seldom fun."
"Arabian","Death is a black camel which kneels at every man's gate."
"Arabian","The hasty and the tardy meet at the ferry."
"Arabian","A little body doth often harbour a great soul."
"Arabian","The hasty hand catches frogs for fish."
"Arabian","Silence is the best answer to the stupid. The fool has his answer on the tip of his tongue."
"Arabian","Throw dirt enough, and some will stick."
"Arabian","The different sorts of madness are innumerable."
"Arabian","Trust makes way for treachery."
"Arabian","Curses are like young chickens, And still come home to roost! - Proverb,"
"Arabian","A chameleon does not leave one tree until he is sure of another."
"Arabian","A change is as good as a rest."
"Arabian","A foolish man may be known by six things: Anger without cause, speech without profit, change without progress, inquiry without object, putting trust in a stranger, and mistaking foes for friends."
"Arabian","A friend advises in his interest, not yours."
"Arabian","Throw a lucky man in the sea, and he will come up with a fish in his mouth."
"Arabian","I am a prince and you are a prince; who will lead the donkeys?."
"Arabian","Diligence is a great teacher."
"Arabian","Diligence is the mother of good luck."
"Arabian","The hasty angler loses the fish."
"Arabian","Fear not the man who fears God."
"Arabian","Search knowledge though it be in China."
"Arabian","If begging should unfortunately be thy lot, knock at the large gates only."
"Arabian","If you have much, give of your wealth; if you have little, give of your heart."
"Arabian","If you stop every time a dog barks, your road will never end."
"Arabian","Judge not of a ship as she lies on the stocks."
"Arabian","Know each other as if your were brothers; negotiate deals as if you were strangers to each other."
"Arabian","Knowledge acquired as a child is more lasting than an engraving on stone."
"Arabian","Knowledge is a treasure, but practice is the key to it."
"Arabian","No man is a good physician who has never been sick."
"Arabian","One coin in the money-box makes more noise than when it is full."
"Arabian","Judge a man by the reputation of his enemies."
"Arabian","Salt will never be worm-eaten."
"Arabian","Do not cut down the tree that gives you shade."
"Arabian, Dutch","God sells knowledge for labour, honour for risk."
"Arapaho","Take only what you need and leave the land as you found it."
"Arapaho","When we show our respect for other living things, they respond with respect for us."
"Arapaho","When there is true hospitality, not many words are needed."
"Arapaho","Each bird loves to hear himself sing."
"Arapaho","All plants are our brothers and sisters. They talk to us and if we listen, we can hear them."
"Arapaho","If we wonder often, the gift of knowledge will come."
"Arapaho","Before eating, always take time to thank the food."
"Argentine","The one who loves you will also make you weep."
"Argentine","He who loves you will make you weep."
"Argentine","If a man lends an ear, it's because he, too, wants to speak."
"Argentine","Woman is like your shadow; follow her, she flies; fly from her, she follows."
"Argentine","If you have a tail of straw, then keep away from the fire."
"Argentine","It's not the fault of the pig, but of the one who scratches his back."
"Argentine","You praise yourself so much you're never finished."
"Argentine","It's not the heat, it's the humidity."
"Argentine","One door is shut, but a thousand are open."
"Argentine","The larger the ship, the larger the storm."
"Argentine","A dog that barks all the time gets little attention."
"Argentine","What is greatly desired is not believed when it comes."
"Argentine","It's not the gay coat that makes the gentleman."
"Argentine","The person that learns well also defends himself well."
"Argentine","No woman can make a wise man out of a fool, but every woman can change a wise man into a fool."
"Argentine","A false friend's tongue is sharper than a knife."
"Argentine","A learned man is twice born."
"Argentine","A good friend is better than a near relation."
"Argentine","Abundance breeds arrogance."
"Argentine","Two in harmony are in god's company."
"Argentine","Children's love is like water in a basket."
"Argentine","The tongue that belongs to a fake friend is sharper than a knife."
"Argentine","The voice of the people is the will of god."
"Argentine","Three daughters and a mother are four devils for a father."
"Argentine","Clear accounts and thick chocolate."
"Argentine","Dress the monkey in silk and it is still a monkey."
"Argentine","A man who develops himself is born twice."
"Argentine","The one who loves you will make you weep."
"Argentine","It's not the heat, it's the humidity."
"Argentine","It's not the fault of the pig, but of the one who scratches his back."
"Argentine","It's not the gay coat that makes the gentleman."
"Armenian","Clouds that thunder do not always rain."
"Armenian","Dogs that fight each other will join forces against the wolf."
"Armenian","The friend who helps me and the enemy who does me no harm, make a pair of earrings."
"Armenian","Priest on the outside, Satan on the inside."
"Armenian","There is no reason for war that reasonable men can't settle. Clouds and thunder don't always result in rain. A small cloud can hide the sun and the moon."
"Armenian","The world is a pot, man but a spoon in it."
"Armenian","The woman who loves her husband corrects his faults; the man that loves his wife exaggerates them."
"Armenian","The wolf is upset about what he left behind, and the shepherd is upset about what he took away."
"Armenian","The water in which one drowns is always an ocean."
"Armenian","The tongue of the fool is always long."
"Armenian","Thunder clouds do not always give rain."
"Armenian","The gravity of the earth is so strong that the old grey man walks crooked."
"Armenian","To ask a favor from a miser is like trying to make a hole in water."
"Armenian","The eagle was killed by an arrow made from its own feathers."
"Armenian","The dowry that a woman brings is like a bell; every time she passes by she hits you with the clapper."
"Armenian","The butterfly who settles on a branch is afraid that he will break it."
"Armenian","The bee gets honey from the same flower where the snake sucks her poison."
"Armenian","Tears have meaning but only he who sheds them understands."
"Armenian","Stand away from dwarfs, for it's God who hit them on the head."
"Armenian","Quiet horses kick the hardest."
"Armenian","The only sword that never rests is the tongue of a woman."
"Armenian","When they gave the donkey flowers to smell, he ate them."
"Armenian","Friendship is not born of words alone."
"Armenian","If it moves, salute it; if it doesn't move, pick it up; and if you can't pick it up, paint it."
"Armenian","You don't satisfy your hunger by watching others work."
"Armenian","You cannot put a fire out with spit."
"Armenian","You cannot hit the point of a needle with a fist."
"Armenian","You are as many a person as languages you know."
"Armenian","Whoever drinks on credit gets drunk more quickly."
"Armenian","They asked a bullfrog, ""Why do you croak all the time?"" He replied, ""I'm enchanted with my voice."""
"Armenian","When your fortune improves, the columns of your house appear to be crooked."
"Armenian","The stones of my native country are warmer than the ovens of Babylon."
"Armenian","When the thief has stolen from a thief, God laughs in heaven."
"Armenian","When the cart breaks down, advice abounds."
"Armenian","When someone's wealth improves, all of a sudden their house's columns appear to be crooked."
"Armenian","When asked, ""What news from the sea?"" The fish replied ""I have a lot to say, but my mouth is full of water."""
"Armenian","Wealth can give legs to the cripple, beauty to the ugly, and sympathy to tears."
"Armenian","To pick up in a clumsy way is stealing, to steal in a skillful way is to pick up."
"Armenian","To be willing is only half the job."
"Armenian","Where is there a tree not shaken by the wind?"
"Armenian","On a rainy day many offer to water the chickens."
"Armenian","A calf is not found under an ox."
"Armenian","A drowning man will clutch at straws."
"Armenian","A girl with a golden cradle doesn't remain long in her father's house."
"Armenian","A mule can swim seven different strokes but the moment he sees the water he forgets them all."
"Armenian","A mule laden with gold is welcome at every castle."
"Armenian","A pain in the foot is soon forgotten -- a pain in the head is not."
"Armenian","A woman is like the moon-some nights it is silver others gold."
"Armenian","Dine with a friend but do not do business with him."
"Armenian","All riches come from the earth."
"Armenian","Always tell the truth in the form of a joke."
"Armenian","As mills require two stones, so friendship requires two heads."
"Armenian","The voice of the people is louder than the boom of a canon."
"Armenian","At death's door a man will beg for the fever."
"Armenian","Because the cat was given no meat, he said it was Friday."
"Armenian","Before the fat one slims, the slim one will die."
"Armenian","Better to be an ant's head than a lion's tail."
"Armenian","Birds are caught with seed, men with money."
"Armenian","Choose a friend with the eyes of an old man, and a horse with the eyes of a young one."
"Armenian","Advice is a free gift that can become expensive for the one who gets it."
"Armenian","It is better to carry stones with a wise man than accept the meal of a madman."
"Armenian","Ashamed of what she sees in the daytime the sun sets with a blush."
"Armenian","Even if the nightingale is in a gold cage, she still dreams of returning to the forest."
"Armenian","No one will give a pauper bread, but everybody will give him advice."
"Armenian","Men have three ears: one on the left of the head, one on the right of the head, and one in the heart."
"Armenian","Love did not grow any garlic."
"Armenian","If you speak too much, you will learn too little."
"Armenian","If you cannot become rich, be the neighbor of a rich man."
"Armenian","If a woman hears that something unusual is going on in heaven, she would find a ladder to go and look."
"Armenian","If a rich man dies, all the world is moved; if a poor man dies, nobody knows it."
"Armenian","He that asks knows one shame; he that doesn't knows two."
"Armenian","He's looking for the donkey while sitting on it."
"Armenian","He who speaks a lot learns little."
"Armenian","He who looks for a friend without a fault will never find one."
"Armenian","He who cannot pray at home will celebrate mass somewhere else."
"Armenian","How can one start a fast with baklava in one's hand."
"Armenian","Men have three ears: one on the left of the head, one on the right of the head, and one in the heart."
"Armenian","Give a horse to the one who likes the truth so that on it he can escape."
"Armenian","Thunder clouds do not always give rain."
"Armenian","You are as many a person as languages you know."
"Army","If it moves, salute it; if it doesn't move, pick it up; and if you can't pick it up, paint it."
"Ashanti","What is bad luck for one man is good luck for another."
"Ashanti","Two men in a burning house must not stop to argue."
"Ashanti","There is no medicine to cure hatred."
"Ashanti","The ruin of a nation begins in the homes of its people."
"Ashanti","The poor man and the rich man do not play together."
"Ashanti","The moon moves slowly, but it crosses the town."
"Ashanti","Only when you have crossed the river, can you say the crocodile has a lump on his snout."
"Ashanti","When a king has good counselors, his reign is peaceful."
"Ashanti","Wood already touched by fire is not hard to set alight."
"Ashanti","One cannot both feast and become rich."
"Ashanti","One falsehood spoils a thousand truths."
"Ashanti","Rain beats a leopard's skin, but it does not wash out the spots."
"Ashanti","When a man is coming toward you, you need not say: ""Come here."""
"Ashanti","When a man is wealthy, he may wear an old cloth."
"Ashanti","When a woman is hungry, she says, ""Roast something for the children that they might eat."""
"Ashanti","When rain beats on a leopard it wets it, but rain does not wash out its spots."
"Ashanti","When the cock is drunk, he forgets about the hawk."
"Ashanti","When the fool is told a proverb, its meaning has to be explained to him."
"Ashanti","When you are rich, you are hated; when you are poor, you are despised."
"Ashanti","When you go to someone else's house and the owner is squatting there on the ground, you do not ask for a stool."
"Ashanti","You must act as if it is impossible to fail."
"Ashanti","True power comes through cooperation and silence."
"Ashanti","No one tests the depth of a river with both feet."
"Ashanti","When you follow in the path of your father, you learn to walk like him."
"Ashanti","Do not call the forest that shelters you a jungle."
"Ashanti","Money is sharper than a sword."
"Ashanti","Two small antelopes can beat a big one."
"Ashanti","By the time the fool has learned the game, the players have dispersed."
"Ashanti","A lie can annihilate a thousand truths."
"Ashanti","Do not follow the path. Go where there is no path to begin the trail."
"Ashanti","Do not let what you cannot do tear from your hands what you can."
"Ashanti","Even though the old man is strong and hearty, he will not live forever."
"Ashanti","Fire and gunpowder do not sleep together."
"Ashanti","Force against force equals more force."
"Ashanti","He is a fool whose sheep runs away twice."
"Ashanti","He who cannot dance will say: The drum is bad."
"Ashanti","He who is guilty is the one that has much to say."
"Ashanti","It is the calm and silent water that drowns a man."
"Ashanti","If nothing touches the palm-leaves they do not rustle."
"Ashanti","It's a bad child who does not take advice."
"Ashanti","If you are in hiding, don't light a fire."
"Ashanti","If you are on a road to nowhere, find another road."
"Ashanti","If you understand the beginning well, the end will not trouble you."
"Ashanti","It is difficult to throw a stone at a lizard that is clinging to a pot."
"Ashanti","It is Mr. Old-Man-Monkey who marries Mrs. Old-Woman-Monkey."
"Ashanti","It is no shame at all to work for money."
"Ashanti","It is the fool's sheep that break loose twice."
"Ashanti","A wise man who knows proverbs, reconciles difficulties."
"Ashanti","Hunger is felt by a slave and hunger is felt by a king."
"Ashanti","One cannot both feast and become rich."
"Asian-Indian","Our faults provide opportunities for others."
"Asian-Indian","Our shadow will follow us."
"Asian-Indian","Popular agitation leads to justice."
"Asian-Indian","Saints fly only in the eyes of their disciples."
"Asian-Indian","Saving mustard seeds in hand, while a watermelon escapes."
"Asian-Indian","Only the cure you believe in cures."
"Asian-Indian","Sleep after selling horses and elephants."
"Asian-Indian","One and one are sometimes eleven."
"Asian-Indian","Snakes turn milk into poison."
"Asian-Indian","Sorrow for the death of a father lasts six months; sorrow for a mother, a year; sorrow for a wife, until another wife; sorrow for a son, forever."
"Asian-Indian","Service is greatness."
"Asian-Indian","One man's breath's another man's death."
"Asian-Indian","One man's beard is on fire, and another man warms his hands on it."
"Asian-Indian","One man can burn water, whereas another cannot even burn oil."
"Asian-Indian","Of what use is the veil if you are going to dance."
"Asian-Indian","O daughter, I'm telling you. O daughter-in-law, listen to it."
"Asian-Indian","No sweet without sweat."
"Asian-Indian","No sunshine but hath some shadow."
"Asian-Indian","Take a close look at today, because yesterday is but a dream and tomorrow is barely a vision."
"Asian-Indian","Never strike your wife, even with a flower."
"Asian-Indian","No strength within, no respect without."
"Asian-Indian","One man cut the barrage, and a thousand people fell into the river."
"Asian-Indian","I bought the nettle, sowed the nettle, and then the nettle stung me."
"Asian-Indian","Wash your hands in the flowing Ganges."
"Asian-Indian","Truth has but one color, a lie has many."
"Asian-Indian","To quarrel with a man of good speech is better than to converse with a man who does not speak well."
"Asian-Indian","They who give have all things; they who withhold have nothing."
"Asian-Indian","They know not their own defects who search for the defects of others."
"Asian-Indian","These three take crooked ways: carts, boats, and musicians."
"Asian-Indian","There are three things that refresh the heart and reduce your grief water, flowers, and a beautiful woman."
"Asian-Indian","There are none so deaf as those who will not hear advice."
"Asian-Indian","The wise must be respected, even when the advice they give is not suitable."
"Asian-Indian","The wind sweeps the road clean."
"Asian-Indian","The greatest hero is one who has control over his desires."
"Asian-Indian","The tip of a finger cannot be touched by itself."
"Asian-Indian","Take a close look then at today."
"Asian-Indian","Waste not want not."
"Asian-Indian","Many dogs kill a hare, no matter how many turns it makes."
"Asian-Indian","The gardner had not yet dug out the radish, when the beggar held the alms-bowl in front of him."
"Asian-Indian","The gardener had not yet dug out the radish, when the beggar held the alms-bowl in front of him."
"Asian-Indian","The fall is nobody's sire."
"Asian-Indian","The diamond in your belly sparkles on your face."
"Asian-Indian","The danger past, and God forgotten."
"Asian-Indian","The customers are known to the shopkeepers."
"Asian-Indian","The beggar who asks for crumbs gets more than the one who asks for bread."
"Asian-Indian","The beggar is not afraid of the drawbacks of being rich."
"Asian-Indian","The water from the river becomes salty when it reaches the ocean."
"Asian-Indian","Abstinence is the best medicine."
"Asian-Indian","IF you are buying a cow, make sure that the price of the tail is included."
"Asian-Indian","By slitting the ears and cutting the tail, a dog is still a dog, not a horse, not an ass."
"Asian-Indian","Before you build a house you have to dig a pit."
"Asian-Indian","As the spokes of a wheel are attached to the hub, so all things are attached to life."
"Asian-Indian","As people go their own way, destiny goes with them."
"Asian-Indian","As day breaks, the glowworms say ""We've lit up the world!"""
"Asian-Indian","Anger has no eyes."
"Asian-Indian","An elephant never tires of carrying his own trunk."
"Asian-Indian","Among the blind, the squint rules."
"Asian-Indian","Can't tell his ass from a hole in the ground."
"Asian-Indian","Agreement with two people, lamentation with three."
"Asian-Indian","Dig a well every day to drink water every day."
"Asian-Indian","A woman's appetite is twice that of a man's; her sexual desire, four times; her intelligence, eight times."
"Asian-Indian","A woman talks to one man, looks at another, and thinks about a third."
"Asian-Indian","A sin that is confessed is less heavy to bear."
"Asian-Indian","A man in this world without learning is as a beast of the field."
"Asian-Indian","A house without a child is like a tomb."
"Asian-Indian","A good well-lived today makes every yesterday a dream of a good future, and every morning is a vision of hope."
"Asian-Indian","A fool who knows he is a fool has a little intelligence, but a fool that thinks he is intelligent is really a fool."
"Asian-Indian","You cannot think you could teach a fish to swim."
"Asian-Indian","Waste makes want."
"Asian-Indian","The one who teaches is the giver of eyes."
"Asian-Indian","All we can hold in our cold dead hands is what we have given away."
"Asian-Indian","He who loves the truth has many enemies."
"Asian-Indian","Life is like a lamp flame; it needs a little oil now and then."
"Asian-Indian","Learn about the future by looking at the past."
"Asian-Indian","Kind words conquer."
"Asian-Indian","Kill a cow to donate shoes."
"Asian-Indian","It is better to walk than to run; it is better to stand than to walk; it is better to sit than to stand; it is better to lie than to sit."
"Asian-Indian","Ignorance is the peace of life."
"Asian-Indian","If you have planted a tree you must water it too."
"Asian-Indian","If you gently touch a nettle it'll sting you for your pains; grasp it like a lad of mettle, an' as soft as silk remains."
"Asian-Indian","If you forsake a certainty and depend on an uncertainty, you will lose both the certainty and the uncertainty."
"Asian-Indian","Can the monkey know the taste of ginger?"
"Asian-Indian","Help thy brother's boat across, and lo! thine own has reached the shore."
"Asian-Indian","Love is a crocodile in the river of desire."
"Asian-Indian","He who allows his day to pass by without practicing generosity and enjoying life's pleasures is like a blacksmith's bellows: he breathes but does not live."
"Asian-Indian","Great anger is more destructive than the sword."
"Asian-Indian","Giving advice to a stupid man is like giving salt to a squirrel."
"Asian-Indian","Fear is the fever of life."
"Asian-Indian","Even the devil needs a friend."
"Asian-Indian","Even an elephant can slip."
"Asian-Indian","Empty vessels make much noise."
"Asian-Indian","Eleven persons take eleven paths."
"Asian-Indian","Eating while seated makes one of large size; eating while standing makes one strong."
"Asian-Indian","Dig your well before you're thirsty."
"Asian-Indian","If a man's heart be impure, all things will appear hostile to him."
"Asian-Indian","Where there is no honey, we have to make do with treacle."
"Asian-Indian","You cannot cook one half of the chicken and leave the other lay eggs."
"Asian-Indian","You can buy everything, except a father and a mother."
"Asian-Indian","Yesterday is but a dream, tomorrow but a vision. But today well lived makes every yesterday a dream of happiness, and every tomorrow a vision of hope. Look well, therefore, to this day."
"Asian-Indian","Why would a man without a bow look for arrows?"
"Asian-Indian","Whose stick, his buffalo."
"Asian-Indian","You sometimes forget the harm that was done to you, but never the harm you have done to others."
"Asian-Indian","Where there is sunshine, there is also shade."
"Asian-Indian","When rogues fallout, honest men come by their own."
"Asian-Indian","When the mother dies the father becomes an uncle."
"Asian-Indian","When pumpkins are watered, brinjals [small plants] also get watered."
"Asian-Indian","When I drown, the whole world drowns."
"Asian-Indian","When an elephant is in trouble even a frog will kick him."
"Asian-Indian","When a camel is at the foot of a mountain then judge of his height."
"Asian-Indian","What nectar can be drunk with the ears? Good advice."
"Asian-Indian","Who is the happiest person in the world? An unfaithful husband."
"Assiniboine","Deeds speak louder than words."
"Assiniboine","Be brave where bravery is honorable."
"Assyrian","Tell me your friends, and I'll tell you who you are."
"Asturian","Do not spread your corn to dry at an enemy's door."
"Asturian","Do not stand in a place of danger trusting in miracles."
"Asturian","Do not stand in a place of danger trusting in miracles."
"Asturian","Do not spread your corn to dry at an enemy's door."
"Australian","You might as well be hanged for a sheep as for a lamb."
"Australian","Once bitten, twice shy."
"Australian","God helps those who help themselves."
"Australian","Our purpose here is to observe, to learn, to grow, to love; and then we return home."
"Australian","The clash of ideas brings forth the spark of truth."
"Australian","Those who lose dreaming are lost."
"Australian","In the planting season visitors come singly, and in harvest time they come in crowds."
"Australian","We are all visitors to this time, this place. We are just passing through."
"Australian","None so deaf as those who would not hear."
"Australian","Blood is thicker than water."
"Australian","A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush."
"Australian","A bad worker blames his tools."
"Australian","Don't blow your own trumpet."
"Australian","Half a loaf is better than none."
"Australian","One man's meat is another man's poison."
"Australian","Don't count your chickens before they're hatched."
"Australian Aboriginal","A 1000 miles journey starts with a single step."
"Australian Aboriginal","Those who play bowls must look out for rubbers."
"Australian Aboriginal","May as well be here we are as where we are."
"Australian Aboriginal","Those who lose dreaming are lost."
"Australian Aboriginal","Keep your eyes on the sun and you will not see the shadows."
"Australian Aboriginal","Those who lost dreaming are lost."
"Australian Aboriginal","Those who play at bowls must look out for rubbers."
"Australian Aboriginal","Those who lose dreaming are lost."
"Australian Aboriginal","We are all visitors to this time, this place. We are just passing through. Our purpose here is to observe, to learn, to grow, to love... and then we return home."
"Australian Aboriginal","The more you know, the less you need."
"Australian Aboriginal","Those who lose dreaming are lost."
"Australian Aboriginal","Those who play at bowls must look out for rubbers."
"Austrian","Do not allow the Gypsies to lure you out behind the furnace."
"Austrian","First bake the strudel then sit down and ponder."
"Austrian","Nothing ventured, nothing gained."
"Austrian","If you shoot your arrows at stones, you will damage them."
"Austrian","History is constantly teaching, but it does not find many pupils."
"Austrian","God gives the wheat, He doesn't bake the bread."
"Austrian","Anyone who keeps the ability to see beauty never grows old."
"Austrian","A marriage is a procession in which the cross goes first."
"Austrian","A light is still a light, even though the blind man cannot see it."
"Austrian","A lazy man is the devils handyman."
"Austrian","A blind chicken will often find an ear of corn."
"Austrian","Imitate the sundial's ways, count only the pleasant days."
"Austrian","Old men and poodles are good for nothing."
"Austrian","A educated woman finds few suitors."
"Austrian","There's only one pretty child in the world, and every mother has it."
"Austrian","Success has more than one father."
"Austrian","To be drunk every day is also a regular life."
"Austrian","There are more chains than mad dogs."
"Austrian","The situation is hopeless, but not serious."
"Austrian","The most dangerous food is wedding cake."
"Austrian","If you owe 10,000 dollars, you are a customer of the bank. If you owe 100 million dollars, the bank is a customer of yours."
"Austrian","The hunt is like a dance for men, for women the dance is the hunt."
"Austrian","The earth does not shake when the flea coughs."
"Austrian","The cripple is always the one to open the dancing."
"Austrian","What I do not know will not keep me warm."
"Azande","Passion and hatred are children of intoxicating beverages."
"Azerbaijani","Never mind storms and snows for the sake of a friend."
"Azerbaijani","Until spring comes, nightingales do not sing."
"Azerbaijani","Someone's end, someone's beginning."
"Azerbaijani","Overtakes whom gets, and stones whom doesn't."
"Azerbaijani","Pass the bridge that your kinsmen have passed."
"Azerbaijani","Politeness is not sold in the bazaar."
"Azerbaijani","Saying ""halva-halva"" won't make your mouth sweet."
"Azerbaijani","Shameful is not the one who doesn't know, but the one who doesn't ask."
"Azerbaijani","Smart bird gets trapped in its beak."
"Azerbaijani","Speak not of what you have read, but about what you have understood."
"Azerbaijani","The forest can't be without its jackals."
"Azerbaijani","To tell the dog to catch, and the rabbit to run."
"Azerbaijani","Tongue may muddle up and say the truth."
"Azerbaijani","Unearned riches have no goods."
"Azerbaijani","Mullah is sick when poor dies."
"Azerbaijani","Until the lions have their historians, tales of the hunt shall always glorify the hunter."
"Azerbaijani","Wise enemy is better than a foolish friend."
"Azerbaijani","Without sowing a single wheat you would not harvest thousand ones."
"Azerbaijani","Wrap yourself together in a carpet and roll together with your kinsmen."
"Azerbaijani","Tree would bend when it bears fruit."
"Azerbaijani","A man would not lick what he spit."
"Azerbaijani","One's own simple bread is much better than someone else's pilaf."
"Azerbaijani","A man says his word to the face."
"Azerbaijani","Mouth will not be sweet if you say halva."
"Azerbaijani","Beauty is ten, nine of which is dressing."
"Azerbaijani","Beauty without virtue is a curse."
"Azerbaijani","Bless the builders, damn the slayers."
"Azerbaijani","Cheap meat never makes a good soup."
"Azerbaijani","Courage is ten, nine is the ability to escape."
"Azerbaijani","Courage mounteth with occasion."
"Azerbaijani","Drop by drop would make a lake."
"Azerbaijani","Every tree casts shadow on its own bottom."
"Azerbaijani","Grass grows on its roots."
"Azerbaijani","He can't see the beam in his own, but he's looking for an eyelash in someone else's."
"Azerbaijani","I tried to draw the eyebrow, but I ended up poking the eye."
"Azerbaijani","Intelligence is in the head, not in the age."
"Azerbaijani","It's not shameful not to know, but it's shameful not to ask."
"Azerbaijani","Look at my color, know my mood."
"Azerbaijani","Make sure your blanket covers your feet."
"Azerbaijani","A mad man drops a rock into water well, so that thousand wise men can not take it out."
"Azerbaijani","Dog has to have its stomach full."
"Azerbaijani","Until the lions have their historians, tales of the hunt shall always glorify the hunter."
"Azerbaijani","Wrap yourself together in a carpet and roll together with your kinsmen."
"Azerbaijani","Until spring comes, nightingales do not sing."
"Azerbaijani","The forest can't be without its jackals."
"Azerbaijani","Saying ""halva-halva"" won't make your mouth sweet."
"Azerbaijani","Pass the bridge that your kinsmen have passed."
"Azerbaijani","Never mind storms and snows for the sake of a friend."
"Azerbaijani","Make sure your blanket covers your feet."
"Azerbaijani","I tried to draw the eyebrow, but I ended up poking the eye."
"Azerbaijani","He can't see the beam in his own, but he's looking for an eyelash in someone else's."
"Azerbaijani","Courage mounteth with occasion."
"Azerbaijani","Courage is ten, nine is the ability to escape."
"Azerbaijani","Cheap meat never makes a good soup."
"Azerbaijani","Beauty without virtue is a curse."
"Azerbaijani","Beauty is ten, nine of which is dressing."
"Azerbaijani","It's not shameful not to know, but it's shameful not to ask."
"Baguirmi","A man with too much ambition cannot sleep in peace."
"Baguirmi","You are beautiful because of your possessions."
"Baguirmi","Do not try to cook the goat's young in the goat's milk."
"Baguirmi","The humble pay for the mistakes of their betters."
"Baguirmi","Do not try to cook the goat's young in the goat's milk."
"Bahamian","A strawberry blossom will not sweeten dry bread."
"Bahamian","Cunning is superior to strength."
"Bahamian","Sickness accompanies a waning moon; a new moon cures disease."
"Bahamian","To engage in conflict, one does not bring a knife that cuts -but a needle that sews."
"Bahamian","When the moon is not full, the stars shine more brightly."
"Bahaya","We rest our legs, but never our mouths."
"Bahaya","The mouth does not forget what it tasted only one time."
"Bahaya","Who guards two termite hills, returns empty handed."
"Bahaya","You only understand the joys of parenthood when you have your first child, you only understand the mystery of death when in mourning."
"Bahaya","We work on the surface, the depths are a mystery."
"Bahaya","Every hill has its leopard."
"Bahaya","Eyes watch but cannot take."
"Bahaya","One piece of green wood is enough to stop the others from burning."
"Bahumbu","Who walks in the mud, at some point must clean his feet."
"Bahumbu","To start a fight, one does not bring a knife that cuts but a needle that sews."
"Bahumbu","When weeds invade the land, it means the owner is absent."
"Bahunde","Who created thunder does not fear it."
"Bahunde","Until the old moon disappears completely, the new moon can not come."
"Bahunde","The new moon cannot come until the other has gone."
"Bajan","Candidates for circumcision."
"Bajan","Cat luck en' dog luck."
"Bajan","Cockroach ain't have nuh right at hen party."
"Bajan","Cockroach aint had no right in fowl cock company."
"Bajan","Cooked food is not sold for goats."
"Bajan","De berry don' drop too far from de tree."
"Bajan","Boys and sugar-cane grow up as enemies."
"Bajan","De hen dat cackle lay de egg."
"Bajan","De higher de monkey climb, de more he does show he tail."
"Bajan","De longer yuh live, de more yuh does hear."
"Bajan","De more yuh look de less yuh see."
"Bajan","De more yuh peep, de less yuh see."
"Bajan","De sea en' get nuh back door."
"Bajan","De tongue dat buy yuh does sell yuh."
"Bajan","De devil does find work for evil hands to do."
"Bajan","A slaughterhouse is not without a little blood."
"Bajan","A joke must not hit the belly."
"Bajan","A knife and a shaving-knife are alike."
"Bajan","A little idleness causes the ruin of the beehive."
"Bajan","A little idleness lost a tilled field."
"Bajan","A man is poor not because he scorns possessions, but because he possesses nothing."
"Bajan","A person will change his mind on something if left to sleep over it."
"Bajan","A trick is not an arrow."
"Bajan","A really good thing is ever good."
"Bajan","Another's mouth cannot take the oath for you."
"Bajan","A small red snuff-box is a welcome."
"Bajan","A son as cunning as his father knows the arrows like father."
"Bajan","Don't limp before yuh lame."
"Bajan","A stupid turtle-dove is sometimes surprised by night for wanting one more grain of castor-oil plant."
"Bajan","A joke can break the earring."
"Bajan","A wily person does not walk on dry leaves."
"Bajan","A plant loses its blossom as soon as it bears fruit."
"Bajan","The little bird that flaps its wings too much will spoil them."
"Bajan","The hunter's son knows how to hunt."
"Bajan","If greedy wait, hot will cool."
"Bajan","If crab don't walk 'bout crab don't eat."
"Bajan","I aint put ya in so I cant tek you out."
"Bajan","Hyena says that men are wise because they know how to hold a firebrand."
"Bajan","Hurry-hurry never done."
"Bajan","The hyena calls another hyena worse than itself."
"Bajan","Dead man can' run from 'e coffin."
"Bajan","He who is stricken knows how to defend himself."
"Bajan","If the first goat goes lame, those that follow will not reach the pasture."
"Bajan","The man that serves is not prevented from being served in turn."
"Bajan","The man who has no impurity will be helped even by peels he sees on the road."
"Bajan","The mouth is a chink."
"Bajan","He who is full does not understand what is told."
"Bajan","He who goes around with his body upright, later on will go crawling."
"Bajan","He don't care if Good Friday come pon a Sunday."
"Bajan","He ain't even loss he mudda features yet."
"Bajan","The hyena does not eat its baby, and you know how insatiable it is."
"Bajan","Evah fool got ?e sense."
"Bajan","A good action reaps another."
"Bajan","Dont cut off ya nose to spite ya face."
"Bajan","Dont give away anything and then take it back, or the person you gave it to will ""set a cat boil for you."""
"Bajan","Dont hang your hat where you cant reach it."
"Bajan","Dont point your finger into a graveyard or it will drop off."
"Bajan","Dont step over a grave or you will soon die."
"Bajan","Dont stick your nose where you en wanted."
"Bajan","The hump of the ox that has grown old must be eaten by women."
"Bajan","Evah fool got 'e sense."
"Bajan","If the cap fits wear it."
"Bajan","Every bush is a man."
"Bajan","Every dog got 'e day."
"Bajan","The goats pasture with bells hanging from their necks in order not to stray."
"Bajan","The good milking cow is praised after her death."
"Bajan","In the presence of elderly people one must not pour water."
"Bajan","In every family where there is a son, the head of an ox, goat or ram is cooked to be eaten by him with his friends."
"Bajan","If ya wuk ya want, and if ya dont wuk ya want, so why wuk."
"Bajan","Don't leh de devil get into me now."
"Bajan","Dont trouble trouble until trouble troubles you."
"Bajan","Old people's walking teaches young ones to walk."
"Bajan","A good millstone does not meet a good miller."
"Bajan","Nobody grumbles while carrying a load, but when he has laid it down."
"Bajan","Nobody is born wise."
"Bajan","Nobody knows where he goes, but only whence he comes."
"Bajan","Nobody returns where he got his finger bitten,."
"Bajan","Nobody throws a lance if he has no target."
"Bajan","Nobody walks with another man's gait."
"Bajan","Nobody gathers firewood to roast a thin goat."
"Bajan","Nuh name, nuh blame."
"Bajan","Nobody entering a hut pays for the heart he will enjoy in it."
"Bajan","One ages every night one lives."
"Bajan","One can lose four and eight."
"Bajan","One favours him from whom one has in the past received a gift."
"Bajan","One finger does not kill a louse."
"Bajan","One hand can't clap."
"Bajan","Only a dog does retrun tuh 'e vomit."
"Bajan","Other's ornaments tire one's neck."
"Bajan","Nobody wants to meet an ill-omened bird."
"Bajan","No evil, but only the good will last."
"Bajan","It is he who got milk that is merciful."
"Bajan","It is not the owner, trampling his own field, that spoils it."
"Bajan","Kamau who is white becomes black."
"Bajan","Let sleeping dogs lie."
"Bajan","Make sure better than cock-sure."
"Bajan","Many people together lift up the 'ndiri'."
"Bajan","Meat has no choice morsel."
"Bajan","Nobody grumbles at being rich, all at being poor."
"Bajan","No day dawns like another."
"Bajan","Resist the beginnings."
"Bajan","No married woman will have her white hair shaved at her mother's."
"Bajan","No partridge is small when it claws the soil."
"Bajan","No prepotent man will insult other people for two consecutive seasons."
"Bajan","No war has been fought by men carrying a calabash of 'njohi' but of 'ucuru'."
"Bajan","Nobody calls another's father 'dad'."
"Bajan","Nobody can see his own goodness: it can be seen only by others."
"Bajan","Nobody cares about other people's poverty."
"Bajan","News don't lack a carrier."
"Bajan","The foot and the earth cannot help meeting."
"Bajan","The cow is given a present when her calf is carried away."
"Bajan","The cow that drops her calf in the sun feeds it there too."
"Bajan","The day is for working, the night is for resting."
"Bajan","The dunghill grows by straws thrown upon it."
"Bajan","The elders of the council do not jump over a brook."
"Bajan","The fed baby plays on its mother's bed."
"Bajan","The flea troubles him who has got it in his ear."
"Bajan","Prophet copies a prophet."
"Bajan","The food that is in the mouth is not yet in the belly."
"Bajan","The cimex lives in the firewood and still it reaches its full growth."
"Bajan","The goat slaughtered for a man who is sick now, finds another who ws sick long before."
"Bajan","'Kanywanjui' scratches its thigh."
"Bajan","A branch of 'mutundu' does not hinder the division of a field."
"Bajan","A cat can look at de queen."
"Bajan","A fair daughter's father has no ears."
"Bajan","The mouth that has saliva does not lack words."
"Bajan","A good friend is a treasure."
"Bajan","The food eaten first lasts longest in the stomach."
"Bajan","Talk does mek talk."
"Bajan","Hard-ears you wont hear, own-way ya will feal."
"Bajan","Respect due to a dog."
"Bajan","Rich people cook their food in a potsherd."
"Bajan","Riches are found in cultivating together."
"Bajan","Stolen things bring in misfortune."
"Bajan","Strength does not correspond with courage."
"Bajan","Strength has nothing."
"Bajan","The cow has a bad delivery though her owner is present."
"Bajan","Take an oath only for the hand youslept on."
"Bajan","The cooking pot on the fire leaks, when pouring water it is broken."
"Bajan","The abyss laughs at the plain."
"Bajan","The animal caught in the trap does not refuse to set itself free."
"Bajan","The animal rambling in the stable makes the sleeping ones rise too."
"Bajan","The baby nursed by its grandmother can never be corrected."
"Bajan","The baby that refuses its mother's breast, will never be full."
"Bajan","The bird who has always possessed a beak, does not pick up for another."
"Bajan","The blessed knife eats of the meat of the 'kinandu'."
"Bajan","Quarrelling is peculiar to the woman who has got male children."
"Bajan","Studyation beat Education."
"Bajan","Two rich persons do not wish each other a bird of ill omen."
"Bajan","There is no rain which does not enrich someone."
"Bajan","What dont kill does fatten."
"Bajan","Wha' got blood got feelings."
"Bajan","Wha' ain't pass yuh ain't miss yuh."
"Bajan","Hard ears yuh won't hear, by and by yuh gine feel."
"Bajan","Wha' a sober heart conceal a drunken tongue reveal."
"Bajan","Wha mout seh, han' can' do."
"Bajan","Water does run, but blood does clod."
"Bajan","Wait till yuh trough put, then bubble in it."
"Bajan","Vultures arrive at the place where the goat is slaughtered."
"Bajan","What sweetens goat mout does burn e bottom."
"Bajan","Virtue is better than riches."
"Bajan","What you can dead and leave you can live and see or enjoy."
"Bajan","Two poor cows does make up good dung."
"Bajan","Trouble don't set up like rain."
"Bajan","To seek a woman to the belly."
"Bajan","To forget is the same as to throw away."
"Bajan","To forget a strong man who could help you is the same as to scorn him."
"Bajan","You can take a horse to the pond but you cant make him drink."
"Bajan","To despise the ox means to despise also a strip of hide from it."
"Bajan","There is nothing without a cause."
"Bajan","There is not the son of the front and the son of the back."
"Bajan","There is no tree which a panting animal would not cling to."
"Bajan","There is no thing which does not cause another to exist."
"Bajan","Virtue is power."
"Bajan","You are a new nigger."
"Bajan","You can take a monkey out of the bush, but you cant take the bush of a monkey."
"Bajan","You cant be in the town and be in the country too."
"Bajan","You cant get blood out of a stone."
"Bajan","You got two mout or you are two faced."
"Bajan","You have niggeritis."
"Bajan","You spoke with your own mouth."
"Bajan","Young suga-cane gives no beer."
"Bajan","Yuh ain't even say: ""yuh cat yuh dog""."
"Bajan","Yuh does give yuh mout too much liberty."
"Bajan","You can dead longer than ya live."
"Bajan","What is in Masai is not in Kikuyu."
"Bajan","You are a sweet skin buckey."
"Bajan","To blame the wind for the rain that does not fall."
"Bajan","Ya mout does run like a duck pouch."
"Bajan","Ya bringing ya dumplings to carry way ma rice."
"Bajan","Wuh ever in de 'ole cow in de kiddle."
"Bajan","Whoever got clothes hang out does look fuh rain."
"Bajan","When yuh see a man fishing in a dry pond don't call he a fool."
"Bajan","When yuh leave home pon a morning, yuh don't know who gine feed yuh."
"Bajan","When yuh ain't got horse, ride cow."
"Bajan","When the food is cooked there is no need to wait before eating it."
"Bajan","When hyenas go away jackals rejoice."
"Bajan","When 'ithare' is uprooted 'mugumo' grows in its place."
"Bajan","What your eyes dont see, your stomach will take."
"Bajan","You are a white mout fowl."
"Bajan","The ox that ran away cannot be caught."
"Bajan","The rambling pole-cat leaves its house when there is banquet."
"Bajan","The ram that is shown around is not fat."
"Bajan","The pot telling the kettle it black."
"Bajan","There is no pleasure that does not cause one's cheeks to tremble."
"Bajan","Everybody regrets not what he leaves but what he does not find."
"Bajan","To eat much leaves you with a swollen belly."
"Bajan","Fools rejoice for a bad thing."
"Bajan","The place to use the club and the above arrow are not the same."
"Bajan","The pit allows the grass to fall in."
"Bajan","For a jest one should not take the arrow out of the quiver."
"Bajan","The ox which has no horns, relies for help on the one that has them."
"Bajan","The sea aint got no backdoor; I can swim like lead."
"Bajan","Fowl cock en got nuh right in bulldog fight."
"Bajan","Every skin teeth aint a laugh."
"Bajan","From a jest comes a strife."
"Bajan","GihJack he jacket."
"Bajan","God don't like ugly."
"Bajan","Great haste breaks the yam tuber."
"Bajan","The ox that feeds itself does not spoil its skin."
"Bajan","The ox that claws the 'kiara' will die."
"Bajan","Greedy greedy, give the hog some. Why, the hog does wuk?"
"Bajan","Guilty conscience wont let the eddoes cook."
"Bajan","The mouth who ate the seeds asks, 'Now what shall I plant?'."
"Bajan","Too much weight does break down de scale."
"Bajan","The mouth sells the head."
"Bajan","The ox which has grown old has no admirer."
"Bajan","There is no bow without its meat."
"Bajan","There is no mischance you are guaranteed against."
"Bajan","There is no man that cannot become an orphan."
"Bajan","There is no nice bird in the millet."
"Bajan","There is no location which discusses its affairs in the same way as the other does."
"Bajan","There is no difference between the thief and the looker-on."
"Bajan","There is no butcher that does not slaughter."
"Bajan","Eveything monkey see, monkey do."
"Bajan","There is no name which cannot distinguish a child."
"Bajan","The sky is heavy with rain, but does not come."
"Bajan","There is more than one dog name Bob."
"Bajan","The word that remains in the belly does not mean anything."
"Bajan","The whetstone in a village does no blunt the knife."
"Bajan","The son does not cut his finger in cutting meat for his father."
"Bajan","The song that has no leader, goes wrong."
"Bajan","There is no partridge which does not know its own way of scratching."
"Bajan","The son of the leopard scratches like its mother."
"Bajan","It is always the potato of another family's boy that extinguishes the fire."
"Bajan","The war that has no unity will make no prey,."
"Bajan","The stream does not pass over an old stone."
"Bajan","The timid ox drinks muddy watr."
"Bajan","The tooth laughs with the lance."
"Bajan","The sleeping dog is turned by a stick."
"Bajan","The village, which has got a whetstone, does not blunt the knife."
"Bajan","The vulture perches on the trees because it does not feel sure on the groung."
"Bajan","The war of the eyes never comes to an end."
"Bakusu","The mouth does not eat if the feet do not walk and the hands work."
"Bakusu","The jaws have nothing to chew if the feet do not walk."
"Balari","There is no hiding place on the water surface."
"Balari","A mother is like a kernel, crushed by problems but strong enough to overcome them."
"Balinese","Goodness shouts. Evil whispers."
"Balinese","If you are happy you can always learn to dance."
"Balinese","Skill is only a rumour, until it reaches the muscle."
"Balinese","We have no art. We do everything as well as we can."
"Balinese","Goodness shouts. Evil whispers."
"Balinese","Goodness shouts. Evil whispers."
"Baluba","The skin of the leopard is beautiful, but not his heart."
"Baluba","The leopard's skin is beautiful, but his heart evil."
"Bambala","Even the small leopard is called leopard."
"Bambara","When you get older you keep warm with the wood you gathered as a youth."
"Bambara","The hare and the elephant don't travel well together."
"Bambara","When you chop off a snake's head all you are left with is a piece of rope."
"Bambara","There is no mother like your own mother."
"Bambara","The word of a powerful man is the truth."
"Bambara","The kitchen is older than the mosque."
"Bambara","A long beard and a rosary will not make you a priest."
"Bambara","The child who loves freedom is the first victim of it."
"Bambara","No matter how much the world changes, cats will never lay eggs."
"Bambara","No matter how many chores you finish in your house, there is always yet more to be done."
"Bambara","No matter how long a log floats on the river, it will never be a crocodile."
"Bambara","A pregnant woman is not afraid if you threaten her with what you made her pregnant with."
"Bambara","I have to learn how to walk on three legs says the hyena for when I am old."
"Bambara","He who longs too much for a child will marry a pregnant woman."
"Bambara","He who has a boss is not the master of his burden."
"Bambara","God provides for the blind vulture."
"Bambara","God gives nothing to those who keep their arms crossed."
"Bambara","Even in the freshest of milk, you will still find hairs."
"Bambara","The motherless child will suckle the grandmother."
"Bambara","Do not walk in God's ways on someone else's behalf."
"Bambara","Beware of the goat that is in the lion's lair."
"Bambara","If the hare is your enemy, admit that he can run fast."
"Bamfinu","The elephant dies, but his tusks remain."
"Bamfinu","A baby cannot be heard crying in his mother's womb."
"Bamfinu","You cannot hear a baby cry in the mother's womb."
"Bamileke","The heart of an evil person is never pure."
"Bamileke","The thorn will come out from where it went in."
"Bamileke","The wind helps those without an axe to cut wood."
"Bamileke","What the chief likes is not always what the youths like."
"Bamileke","You are not born a leader, you become one."
"Bamoun","Even if a baby seems unpleasant to look at, his mother never refuses him."
"Bamoun","Pretend you are dead and you will see who really loves you."
"Bamoun","The goat eats the grass there where it is tied."
"Bangala","The dog never forgets its owner."
"Bangala","If you kill a little hippopotamus, you also kill his mother."
"Bangala","Clothes should not be made for an unborn child."
"Bangala","Beating drums is fun, but also tiring."
"Bangwana","The bird has no nest, but a branch to rest on."
"Bantandu","If a frog leaves the swamp for the mountains, it means it is in danger."
"Bantandu","When you eat an egg do not insult the chicken."
"Bantandu","Though the leopard is fierce, it does not devour its cubs."
"Bantandu","Only the owner can free his home from mice."
"Bantandu","A forest cannot be cut with a broken axe."
"Bantandu","The heart of an adult is like that of an elephant."
"Bantu","Whenever I work hard for other people, I always sleep on an empty stomach."
"Bantu","The cabin of a loved one is never too far away."
"Bantu","Only heaven can see the back of a sparrow."
"Bantu","The judge also dies."
"Bantu","The insolence of shortness is to stretch itself big."
"Bantu","The hunter who always comes home with meat is a thief."
"Bantu","The horizon will not disappear as you run towards it."
"Bantu","The eye never forgets what the heart has seen."
"Bantu","The owner of the skin is the one to tan it."
"Bantu","The earth is a beehive; we all enter by the same door but live in different cells."
"Bantu","The power of the crocodile is in the water."
"Bantu","The bull should be taken by the horns, a man at his word."
"Bantu","The bitter heart eats its owner."
"Bantu","Stroke your dog and he will steal eggs."
"Bantu","Respect a little child, and let it respect you."
"Bantu","People get to know one another when traveling."
"Bantu","Work is good provided you do not forget to live."
"Bantu","The egg teaches the chicken how to breed."
"Bantu","Visitors' footfalls are like medicine; they heal the sick."
"Bantu","Who suffers from diarrhea, is not afraid of the dark."
"Bantu","Where there is a friend, one does not have to call, he will come of his own accord."
"Bantu","When there is on a red-hot hoe, it is not grasped."
"Bantu","What one won't eat by itself, one will eat when mixed with other food."
"Bantu","What nature gives us is not refused."
"Bantu","What makes the drum pleasing is the song."
"Bantu","The most stupid chicken always challenges the wildcat."
"Bantu","We celebrated at the wax door, and all the time the honeycomb was empty within."
"Bantu","One mouth doesn't taste the beer."
"Bantu","They are happy, the free men that have their fathers."
"Bantu","There is no return, worse luck; for could I return, I would foresee what has come into the country."
"Bantu","There are forty kinds of lunacy, but only one kind of common sense."
"Bantu","The wise are as rare as eagles that fly high in the sky."
"Bantu","The tortoise stores its wisdom in his shell."
"Bantu","The road doesn't tell the traveler what lies ahead."
"Bantu","What is not bitter is good to eat."
"Bantu","A redeemer of people is a walker with people."
"Bantu","Patience is the mother of a beautiful child."
"Bantu","Cunning comes to an end, what remains is folly."
"Bantu","Chieftanship is not infectious."
"Bantu","Away from home the girl picks forbidden fruit."
"Bantu","Adjoining houses always burn."
"Bantu","A woman's clothes are the price her husband pays for peace."
"Bantu","Dance, father, people's eyes don't eat, they just stare."
"Bantu","A stick one bends while it is still green."
"Bantu","Days are many, what is one is life."
"Bantu","A kingdom's strength is in mutual honor."
"Bantu","A good deed will make a good neighbor."
"Bantu","A dead man does not know where his grave is."
"Bantu","A child one does not instruct on return, one instructs him when going."
"Bantu","A case is not to be decided from one mouth."
"Bantu","A bone does not bring itself, it is people that bring it."
"Bantu","A thief does not like to be robbed."
"Bantu","He was entrapped by the evening, it has cost him his marriage."
"Bantu","One doesn't follow a wild beast into its lair."
"Bantu","No man can paddle two canoes at the same time."
"Bantu","Mr. Not-present was the brave man."
"Bantu","Mother carry me, and I tomorrow will carry you."
"Bantu","Just one by one white hairs have come, and thus have they grown."
"Bantu","It is the grass that knows where the snake goes."
"Bantu","Cut of the sick part while it is still small."
"Bantu","Hunger has no friend."
"Bantu","You do not teach a giraffe to run."
"Bantu","Every beast roars in its own den."
"Bantu","Even if your bee-hive has no honey in it, you shouldn't break it up."
"Bantu","Even if you are cunning, you will not tie water up in a bale of grass."
"Bantu","Even if we eat, earth will eventually enter our mouth."
"Bantu","Earth is like a prison: we all go in through the same door, but we stay in different cells."
"Bantu","Days cannot be tied in a bundle."
"Bantu","It is better to have no law than not enforcing it."
"Bantu","You take a bull by the horns and a man by his words."
"Bantu","Young man, countries practice witchcraft on one another."
"Bantu","Your friend, one doesn't stare at his forehead, one stares at his stomach."
"Bantu","Words in conversation are like beans, one breaks them off where they are ripe."
"Bantu","Visitors' footfalls are like medicine; they heal the sick."
"Bantu","Every beast roars in its own den."
"Bantu","The earth is a beehive; we all enter by the same door but live in different cells."
"Basakata","What the people think cannot be denied."
"Basakata","When you need to make an important decision, never do it alone, choose the right people."
"Basonge","The mouse says: I dig a hole without a hoe; the snake says: I climb a tree without arms."
"Basonge","Though it is the hand that gives, the man must be thanked."
"Basque","Waiting is futile for whomever wants to kiss someone's backside."
"Basque","Sleep with a woman and she will make sure you wake up."
"Basque","The hand of the stranger is heavy."
"Basque","The needle dresses people but stays naked itself."
"Basque","The sickness of the body is the cure of the mind."
"Basque","The thread must be longer than the needle."
"Basque","The wolf and the dog agree about the goat -- which together they eat."
"Basque","The woman who takes a wolf for a husband is always looking into the wood."
"Basque","There is never trust without loss."
"Basque","Old bachelors and old maids are either too good or too bad."
"Basque","Time flies when you are among friends."
"Basque","What the wolf does pleases his mate."
"Basque","Whoever crossed the river at the fordable point, knows how deep the river is."
"Basque","There is no point in offering a helping hand to someone who wants to drown."
"Basque","A silver hammer can open an iron gate."
"Basque","My skin is closer to me than my shirt is."
"Basque","A face that never laughs betrays an evil heart."
"Basque","Beware of women with beards and men without beards."
"Basque","Earth belongs to the brave but heaven to those who deserve it."
"Basque","Empty houses are full of noises."
"Basque","Flatterers and traders are related."
"Basque","God is a good worker but loves to be helped."
"Basque","God is good, but not crazy."
"Basque","Honey is bitter for a sore mouth."
"Basque","More people are threatened than are beaten up."
"Basque","My dog slaps you with his tail and bites you with his teeth."
"Basque","God is a busy worker but loves to be helped."
"Basque","God is a good worker but loves to be helped."
"Bassa","You may grow taller, but no taller than your head."
"Basuto","A turtle never abandons its carriage."
"Batabwa","Who eats too much, will then be sick."
"Batabwa","Intelligence is a fruit picked in the nieghbour's garden."
"Bateke","The river swells from the little streams."
"Bateke","The river swells with the contribution of the small streams."
"Bateke","You learn how to cut down trees cutting them down."
"Batela","The thread follows the needle."
"Batetela","Even your dog knows the homes of your friends."
"Bavarian","What is the use of running when we are on the wrong."
"Bayaka","A village united in fraternity is prosperous."
"Bayaka","An abundance of food at your neighbour's will not satisfy your hunger."
"Bayansi","During a storm you do not take shelter under just one roofing tile."
"Bayansi","During a storm you seek shelter under a tree and not the clouds."
"Bayansi","The toad that wanted to avoid the rain fell in the water."
"Bayansi","You can see the source of a river, but not that of a clan."
"Bayombe","A wrong step by the leader is a warning for those following."
"Bayombe","The chicken that digs for food will not sleep hungry."
"Bayombe","A real family eats the same cornmeal."
"Bayombe","The rich is never satisfied."
"Bedouin","At the narrow passage, there is no brother and no friend."
"Bedouin","My father rode a camel, I shall ride a pick-up and my son will drive a Cadillac; however my grandson will drive a donkey."
"Bedouin","Truth may walk through the world unarmed."
"Bedouin","The lightly burdened shall be saved."
"Bedouin","The broth is cooking, and now we have to act as one."
"Bedouin","When the shooting starts climb on your camel and head for the mountaintops."
"Bedouin","My treasures do not chink or glitter. They gleam in the sun and neigh in the night."
"Bedouin","Knowledge is light. ? and all who contribute bring light to our world."
"Bedouin","Keep women far away from song, because it is a summons to adultery."
"Bedouin","I give thee flight without wings."
"Bedouin","He who shares my bread and salt is not my enemy."
"Bedouin","As the camel falls to its knees, more knives are drawn."
"Bedouin","When you sleep in a house your thoughts are as high as the ceiling, when you sleep outside they are as high as the stars."
"Bedouin","I against my brother, I and my brother against our cousin, I, my brother and our cousin against the neighbors, All of us against the foreigner."
"Bedouin","Truth may walk through the world unarmed."
"Belgian","Experience is the father of wisdom."
"Belgian","Don't make use of another's mouth unless it has been leant to you."
"Belgian","God heals, but the doctor gets paid."
"Belgian","Who sieves too much keeps the rubbish."
"Belgian","While the sheep bleats it loses its mouthful."
"Belgian","What you say when you're drunk should have been thought about beforehand."
"Belgian","Weeds never perish."
"Belgian","We have quite enough to do weeding our own garden."
"Belgian","Truth seldom finds a home."
"Belgian","Those who counsel do not pay."
"Belgian","The horse must graze where it is tethered."
"Belgian","The beggar may sing before the thief."
"Belgian","The bee, from her industry in the summer, eats honey all the winter."
"Belgian","One spot stains the whole dress."
"Belgian","Money buys cherries."
"Belgian","He who arrives too late finds the plate turned over."
"Belgian","Children have a hair of their father."
"Belgian","Don't make use of another's mouth unless it has been leant to you."
"Belgian","Don't make waves."
"Belgian","Experience is the comb that nature gives us when we are bald."
"Belgian","The beautiful is less what one sees than what one dreams."
"Belgian","Happy nations have no history."
"Belgian","It's no use waiting for your ship to come in, unless you've sent one out."
"Belgian","He who does not wish for little things does not deserve big things."
"Belgian","Honor is better than honors."
"Belgian","In the end a needle weighs heavy."
"Belgian","Experience is the comb that nature gives us when we are bald."
"Belgian","It is no use waiting for your ship to come in unless you have sent one out."
"Belgian","Experience keeps a dear school."
"Belgian","Don't make use of another's mouth unless it has been leant to you."
"Belgian","Don't make waves."
"Belgian","Experience is the comb that nature gives us when we are bald."
"Belgian","Experience is the father of wisdom."
"Belgian","Experience keeps a dear school."
"Belgian","The beautiful is less what one sees than what one dreams."
"Belgian","The bee, from her industry in the summer, eats honey all the winter."
"Belgian","The beggar may sing before the thief."
"Belizean","If a man gives you a basket to carry water, it means that he hates you."
"Belizean","A friendship that dies is never reborn."
"Belizean","There is no use in wiping your butt before you defecate."
"Belizean","Remove the stone and you won't stumble."
"Belizean","Never drop the bone to catch the shadow."
"Belizean","Don't carry all your eggs in one basket."
"Belizean","Blood cannot be washed out with blood."
"Belizean","Don't hang your hat higher than you can reach."
"Belizean","Don't call the alligator a big-mouth till you have crossed the river."
"Belizean","Don't call the alligator a big-mouth till you have crossed the river."
"Belizean","Don't carry all your eggs in one basket."
"Belizean","Don't hang your hat higher than you can reach."
"Bemba","A child is an axe; when it cuts you, you still pick it up and put it on your shoulder."
"Bemba","Abuse of hospitality breaks the bridge."
"Bemba","Abuse of hospitality breaks the bridge."
"Bengali","The dog does not catch further that its leash."
"Bengali","It is good for somebody as well as bad for someone else."
"Bengali","It is more becoming to have a large nose than two small ones."
"Bengali","Many people / bad assistance."
"Bengali","My son, too old is the Earth don't make fun of it."
"Bengali","Not need to know French to ask to sleep outside."
"Bengali","Once you are tired, you still can go far."
"Bengali","Patient without any pain, the dog is lame when it wants to."
"Bengali","Pity without help does little good."
"Bengali","Putting importance to an irrelevant and unnecessary occasion."
"Bengali","Sleep is half of Health."
"Bengali","Sorrow, nobody dies about it."
"Bengali","The drunk ones will sober up, but the mad ones will not clever up."
"Bengali","The more cowherds there are, the worse the cows are looked after."
"Bengali","The one who does not make you happy when he arrives makes you happy when he leaves."
"Bengali","The one who does not risk anything does not gain nor lose."
"Bengali","There is no household without domestic fight."
"Bengali","It is easier for the son to ask from the father than for the father to ask from the son."
"Bengali","Someone else's pain is easy to carry."
"Bengali","Don't sell eggs in the bottom of hens."
"Bengali","To be poor is not a sin, it's better to avoid it anyway."
"Bengali","13 festivals in 12 months."
"Bengali","A spared body only goes twenty-four hours further that another."
"Bengali","Any new saint-to-be has his miracles to make."
"Bengali","As long as there will remain two men on Earth, Jealousy will reign."
"Bengali","As the master is away the workers take rest."
"Bengali","At night one takes eels, it is worth waiting sometimes."
"Bengali","A handful of love is better than an oven full of bread."
"Bengali","Desire of God and desire of man are two."
"Bengali","Inside a well-nourished body, the soul remains longer."
"Bengali","Earth is old, but it is not mad."
"Bengali","Fire with seasoned wood and work with flexible people are easy."
"Bengali","Five minutes of health comfort the ill one."
"Bengali","Flesh of man - mends itself."
"Bengali","Good remains are nice to have."
"Bengali","Half-carried - a well-built load."
"Bengali","Half-truth is more dangerous than falsehood."
"Bengali","He who gets the grace of the women is neither hungry nor thirsty."
"Bengali","Complete idiot who can keep silent, to a wise man is similar."
"Bengali","Who loves cats has a beautiful wife."
"Bengali","Even when many people attempt to travel the same road, there are some who walk and some who stumble."
"Bengali","Even if the caged bird has food to eat, he always dreams of the liberty of the forest."
"Bengali","Be careful of the teacher you choose and the water you drink. "
"Bengali","There is no man nor thing without his defect, and often they have two or three of them."
"Bengali","There is no winter for who has remained in his mother's womb."
"Bengali","You can easily find a thousand teachers, but it is difficult to find a true disciple."
"Bengali","It requires lots of time to build a good name, but only a little time to ruin it."
"Bengali","Non-violence is the best religion. "
"Bengali","The poor search for food, and the rich search for hunger."
"Bengali","If you want to be a true man, become good like the earth."
"Bengali","Whose end of tongue is sharp, the edge of his head must be hard."
"Bengali","Who follows his head follows the head of an ass."
"Bengali","Who can master his thirst can master his health."
"Bengali","When the poor man is burried, the large bell of the parish is silent."
"Bengali","We will stay longer dead than poor."
"Bengali","Wait for the night before saying that the day has been beautiful."
"Bengali","Unless a man is simple, he cannot recognize God, the Simple One."
"Bengali","To make a poor man poorer is not easy."
"Bengali","To endure is obligatory, but to like is not."
"Bengali","You can have your nose broken easily if you put it in other peoples business. "
"Bengali","What one has in the heart shows in the eyes. "
"Bengali","Unless a man is simple, he cannot recognize God, the Simple One."
"Benin","Every one has his place: the dead in the cemetery and the living at the table."
"Benin","When the mouse laughs at the car, there is a hole nearby."
"Benin","We can only speak the truth when we turn off the light."
"Benin","The tortoise is friends with the snail: those with shells keep their shells close together."
"Benin","Blacksmiths and woodworkers will never suffer from poverty."
"Benin","Anyone who plants a tree before they die has not lived in vain."
"Benin","The world is a journey, the afterworld is home."
"Beninese","Silence is an attribute of the dead; he who is alive speaks."
"Beninese","Many words do not fill a basket."
"Beninese","A great affair covers up a small matter."
"Beninese","Anyone who sees beauty and does not look at it will soon be poor."
"Beninese","The young cannot teach tradition to the old."
"Beninese","Fear a silent man. He has lips like a drum."
"Beninese","Words are like spears: Once they leave your lips they can never come back."
"Beninese","The misfortune that comes into town does not wear a turban."
"Beninese","There is no god like one's stomach; we must sacrifice to it every day."
"Beninese","What you give you get, ten times over."
"Beninese","Who throws stones at night, kills his own brother."
"Beninese","Before you ask a man for clothes, look at the clothes that he is wearing."
"Benjamin Franklin","If your head is wax, don't walk in the sun."
"Benjamin Franklin","If Jack's in love, he's no judge of Jill's beauty."
"Benjamin Franklin","Employ thy time well if thou meanest to get leisure."
"Benjamin Franklin","Beware of the young doctor and the old barber."
"Berber","Fire purges everything."
"Berber","Whoever wants to hurt never misses his target."
"Berber","Your secret is your blood -- when you shed it you die."
"Berber","You should make a new bucket whilst you still have the old one."
"Berber","You are worth as much as your purse."
"Berber","With tender words you have less luck with a woman than with jewels."
"Berber","Silence is the door of consent."
"Berber","I won't tie up the mule in a horse's place, says the widow."
"Berber","A well educated man always has a kind word to say about the place where he spends the night."
"Berber","Better to be watched by a wild animal than a nosey man."
"Berber","Boil the water and the scum will rise to the top."
"Berber","Except for my father and my mother everybody lies."
"Berber","Exile is the brother of death."
"Berber","God pardons the ignorant."
"Berber","I only have my nails to scratch with and my feet to walk on."
"Berber","If God were not forgiving, heaven would be empty."
"Berber","He who rides a camel should not be afraid of dogs."
"Berber","Is the white camel made of fat?"
"Berber","Who is brave enough to tell the lion that his breath smells?"
"Berber","The barking of the dogs will not disturb the clouds."
"Berber","The land where the stones know you is worth more than the land where the people know you."
"Berber","The prayer of the innocent has no wings."
"Berber","We let him in, and now he shows us the door."
"Berber","When a man dies his feet get bigger."
"Berber","When a thief finds nothing to steal he will steal a dagger made of sand."
"Berber","If you open the eyes of a blind man he wants to go back to the darkness."
"Berber","Silence is the door of consent."
"Beti","You cannot be a mouse and a bat at the same time."
"Beti","Who wakes and rises at the first cry of the songbird collects the best fruit of the night."
"Beti","A raindrop does not spare the head of the notable."
"Beti","A puppy must not confront a large animal."
"Biblical","Don't run too far, you will have to return the same distance."
"Biblical","Iron whets iron."
"Biblical","The prosperity of fools shall destroy them."
"Biblical","If a ruler hearken to lies, all his servants are wicked."
"Biblical","It is better to dwell in a corner of the housetop, than with a brawling woman in a wide house."
"Biblical","Let no man deceive you with vain words."
"Biblical","Many are called but few are chosen."
"Biblical","No man can serve two masters."
"Biblical","Open rebuke is better than secret love."
"Biblical","Seek and ye shall find."
"Biblical","Speak to the earth, and it shall teach thee."
"Biblical","Stolen waters are sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant."
"Biblical","He that walks with wise men shall be wise, but a companion of fools shall be destroyed."
"Biblical","The borrower is servant to the lender."
"Biblical","The heart of fools proclaims foolishness."
"Biblical","The righteous are bold as a lion."
"Biblical","The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak."
"Biblical","The wise man looks ahead. The fool attempts to fool himself and won't face facts."
"Biblical","There are three things that are too amazing for me, four that I do not understand: the way of an eagle in the sky, the way of a snake on a rock, the way of a ship on the high seas, and the way of a man with a maiden."
"Biblical","There is nothing new under the sun."
"Biblical","Wealth makes many friends."
"Biblical","Where there is no vision, people perish."
"Biblical","Wisdom is more precious than rubies."
"Biblical","Your own friend, and your father's friend, forsake not."
"Biblical","Stupid people always think they are right. Wise people listen to advice."
"Biblical","Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due, when it is in the power of your hand to do so."
"Biblical","A good name is better than precious ointment."
"Biblical","A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches."
"Biblical","A just man falls seven times, and rises up again."
"Biblical","A prudent wife is from the Lord."
"Biblical","A soft answer turns away wrath."
"Biblical","Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit."
"Biblical","He that troubles his own house shall inherit the wind: and the fool shall be servant to the wise of heart."
"Biblical","As a dog returns to his vomit, so a fool returns to his folly."
"Biblical","Before honor is humility."
"Biblical","It is more blessed to give than to receive."
"Biblical","Can a man take fire in his bosom, and his clothes not be burned?"
"Biblical","Do you see a man who is wise in his own eyes? There is more hope for a fool than for him."
"Biblical","Don't run too far, you will have to return the same distance."
"Biblical","Even a fool, when he holds his peace, is counted wise."
"Biblical","Every wise woman builds her house: but the fool plucks it down with her hands."
"Biblical","Faith moves mountains."
"Biblical","Faithful are the wounds of a friend; but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful."
"Biblical","Great men are not always wise."
"Biblical","He that is of a merry heart hasth a continual feast."
"Biblical","He that maketh haste to be rich shall not be innocent."
"Biblical","He that repeats a matter separates very friends."
"Biblical","The rebellious dwell in a dry land."
"Black","The blacker the berry the sweeter the juice."
"Blackfoot","The blacker the berry the sweeter the juice."
"Blackfoot","Life is not separate from death. It only looks that way."
"Blackfoot","What is life? It is the flash of a firefly in the night. It is the breath of a buffalo in the wintertime. It is the little shadow which runs across the grass and loses itself in the sunset.."
"Bolivian","Love flies away and the pain remains."
"Bolivian","To 'get out of my house.' or 'what do you want with my wife?' there is no answer."
"Bolivian","The beauty of the man is in his intelligence and the intelligence of the woman is in her beauty."
"Bolivian","May the sun set on where my love dwells."
"Bolivian","Love and prudence are absolutely incompatible."
"Bolivian","It's easier to know your enemies than to know your friends."
"Bolivian","It is better to eat bread with love than fowl with grief."
"Bolivian","He who marries prudence is the brother-in-law of peace."
"Bolivian","Good comes from far away; evil is close at hand."
"Bolivian","An altercation is like buttermilk -- the more you stir it, the sourer it gets."
"Bolivian","Science makes men arrogant; wealth makes them fools."
"Bolivian","A thrashing river is a fisherman's bounty."
"Bolivian","A quarrel is like buttermilk, the more you stir it, the more sour it grows."
"Bolivian","If you marry wise judgment, peace will become your brother-in-law."
"Bondei","Sticks in a bundle are unbreakable."
"Boran","Where there is a herd without a bull, a castrated ox will rule."
"Bornu","The owner of the house knows where his roof leaks."
"Bosnian","Clean your own yard first before asking others to clean theirs."
"Bosnian","Why would you use poison if you can kill with honey."
"Bosnian","Who lies for you will lie against you."
"Bosnian","When the ass was invited to the wedding feast he said, ""They need more wood and water."""
"Bosnian","When an ant gets wings, it loses its head."
"Bosnian","Two things rule the world: reward and punishment."
"Bosnian","Two things rule the world -- reward and punishment."
"Bosnian","The eyes of all cheats are full of tears."
"Bosnian","Someone who lies for you will also lie against you."
"Bosnian","He who heeds the first word of his wife must listen forever to the second."
"Bosnian","Who lies for you will lie against you."
"Bosnian","Don't be misled by the tears of a beggar."
"Bosnian","During the battle you cannot lend your sword to anyone."
"Bosnian","A tree does not grow from the sky."
"Bosnian","A brave man seldom is hurt in the back."
"Bosnian","One who lies for you will also lie against you."
"Bosnian","One who lies for you will also lie against you."
"Bosnian","Who lies for you will lie against you."
"Botswana","The lice will roost on a dirty head."
"Botswana","It is the one who lies by a fire who can feel how hot it is."
"Botswana","Ninety-nine lies may help you, but the hundredth will give you away."
"Botswana","One finger cannot pick up a louse."
"Botswana","Only a dupe checks the depth of the water with both feet."
"Botswana","Only a lion knows best its own needs and can best serve them."
"Botswana","Peace does not make a good ruler."
"Botswana","Silence has a mighty noise."
"Botswana","It is better to walk than curse the road."
"Botswana","The fool is thirsty in the midst of water."
"Botswana","The lizard that lives high up in iroko tree does not hear the lions roar."
"Botswana","The locusts do not devour only your neighbors field."
"Botswana","The earth is a termite mound, we all enter by the same opening."
"Botswana","A loving wife is often blessed with the birth of a tenth child."
"Botswana","You can tell the ripeness of a melon by its look."
"Botswana","If you live in a mud hut, beware of the rain."
"Botswana","A lion cannot hear its own roar."
"Botswana","A prudent man who knows proverbs, resolved problems."
"Botswana","A slipshod man wastes away in the midst of plenty."
"Botswana","All people share the same ancestry."
"Botswana","As the lion said, 'I will kill your lambs and you will remember my presence.'"
"Botswana","Beautiful words don't put porridge in the pot."
"Botswana","Do not look where the harvest is plentiful, but where the people are kind."
"Botswana","God is our general in time of war."
"Botswana","He who does not cultivate his field will die of hunger."
"Botswana","If the enemy within cannot kill us, then the enemy without can do us no harm."
"Botswana","A fool and water will go the way they are diverted."
"Boy Scout Motto","Be Prepared"
"Brazilian","You can only take out of a bag what was already in it."
"Brazilian","Love is blind, so you have to feel your way."
"Brazilian","Never promise a poor person, and never owe a rich one."
"Brazilian","Never put off till tomorrow what you can do today."
"Brazilian","One man's happiness is another man's sadness."
"Brazilian","One who does not look ahead remains behind."
"Brazilian","Others will measure you with the same rod you use to measure them."
"Brazilian","Poverty is not a crime, but it's better not to show it."
"Brazilian","The earth is not thirsty for the blood of the warriors but for the sweat of man's labor."
"Brazilian","The joy of a poor man does not last long."
"Brazilian","The poor eat meat when they bite their tongues."
"Brazilian","The saint is suspicious of too many sacrifices."
"Brazilian","In the house of a blacksmith the ornaments are made of wood."
"Brazilian","Where blood has been shed the tree of forgiveness cannot grow."
"Brazilian","Do not put the cart before the horse."
"Brazilian","The trees with most leaves will not necessarily produce juicy fruit."
"Brazilian","Between the beginning and the end there is always a middle."
"Brazilian","You cannot cover up the sun with a sieve."
"Brazilian","A sleeping fox finds no meat."
"Brazilian","A timely ""no"" beats a hasty ""yes."""
"Brazilian","A wise man learns at the fool's expense."
"Brazilian","An old man with a torn sleeve never dishonored anyone."
"Brazilian","God is big, but the forest is bigger."
"Brazilian","At home saints never perform miracles."
"Brazilian","If it were ever to rain soup, the poor would only have forks."
"Brazilian","For every ailing foot, there is a slipper."
"Brazilian","God writes straight even on wavy lines."
"Brazilian","Goodwill makes the road shorter."
"Brazilian","Haste is the mother of imperfection."
"Brazilian","He who knows nothing, doubts nothing."
"Brazilian","If god does not grant you glory, be content with fame."
"Brazilian","As long as I am running my father will still have a son."
"Brazilian","Words will not pollute the soup."
"Brazilian","Never promise a poor person, and never owe a rich one."
"Brazilian","Never put off till tomorrow what you can do today."
"Brazilian","One who does not look ahead remains behind."
"British","The Peerage is the Englishman's Bible."
"British","The love of money and the love of learning rarely meet."
"British","The love of the wicked is more dangerous than their hatred."
"British","The man who is ready to lend is the beggar's brother."
"British","The married man has many cares, the unmarried one many more."
"British","The money you refuse will never do you good."
"British","The more cost, the more honour."
"British","The old should not be overfed."
"British","The opera isn't over till the fat lady sings."
"British","The strong man and the waterfall channel their own path."
"British","The peacock has fair feathers, but foul feet."
"British","The little cannot be great unless he devour many."
"British","The proof of the pudding is in the eating."
"British","The remembrance of past sorrows is joyful."
"British","The rich knows not who is his friend."
"British","The rich man has his ice in the summer and the poor man gets his in the winter."
"British","The rich man may dine when he will, the poor man when he may."
"British","The rich man spends his money, the poor man his strength."
"British","The riches of the mind may make a man rich and happy."
"British","Wha canna gie will little get."
"British","The owl thinks her own young fairest."
"British","The face is no index to the heart."
"British","Welcome is the best dish."
"British","Weil worth aw, that gars the plough draw."
"British","Weigh justly and sell dearly."
"British","Weel kens the mouse when pussie's in."
"British","Vice is often clothed in virtue's habit."
"British","Unprofitable is a fever of the world."
"British","Understand is better than stare."
"British","Truth will come to light."
"British","The longest at the fire soonest finds cold."
"British","The descent to hell is easy."
"British","The longer we live, the more wonders we see."
"British","The fewer the words, the better the prayer."
"British","The grass is always greener on the other side."
"British","The greatest step is that out of doors."
"British","The grey mare is the better horse."
"British","The guest who outstays his fellow-guests loses his overcoat."
"British","The healthful man can give counsel to the sick."
"British","The joy of the heart makes the face fair."
"British","The way to a man's heart is through his stomach."
"British","The customer is always right."
"British","The best remedy against an ill man, is much ground between."
"British","Train up a child in the way he should go."
"British","Truth fears no trial"
"British","Truth has a scratched face."
"British","Truth has always a sure bottom."
"British","Truth is a spectre that scares many."
"British","Truth needs not the ornament of many words."
"British","The crutch of time does more than the club of Hercules."
"British","The cowl does not make the monk."
"British","The skilfullest wanting money is scorned."
"British","The best things in life are free."
"British","Too much hope deceives."
"British","The best payment is on the peck bottom."
"British","The best advice is found on the pillow."
"British","The bait hides the hook."
"British","The ant had wings to her hurt."
"British","The air of a window is as the stroke of a cross-bow."
"British","The absent saint gets no candle."
"British","The absent party is always to blame."
"British","The absent are always in the wrong."
"British","The cow that's first up gets the first of the dew."
"British","Thinking is very far from knowing."
"British","That's the last straw."
"British","The wind in one's face makes one wise."
"British","Raise no more devils than you can lay."
"British","The world still he keeps at his staff's end that needs not to borrow and never will lend."
"British","There comes nothing out of the sack but what was there."
"British","There is a remedy for everything, could men find it."
"British","There is no blindness like ignorance."
"British","There's always room at the top."
"British","Too much of ought is good for nought."
"British","They think a calf a large beast that never saw a cow."
"British","Too much money makes one mad."
"British","Those far, far away are seldom seen for what they really are."
"British","Though old and wise, yet still advise."
"British","Times change and we with them."
"British","To be good tends to give absence later on."
"British","To bow the body is easy, to bow the will is hard."
"British","To dead men and absent there are no friends left."
"British","Today is the scholar of yesterday."
"British","Too many cooks spoil the broth."
"British","What canna be cured maun be endured."
"British","They that are bound must obey."
"British","Ye ca' hardest at the nail that drives fastest."
"British","Ye should be a king of your word."
"British","Ye needna mak a causey tale o't."
"British","Ye may drive the deil into a wife, but ye'll ne'er ding him oot o' her."
"British","Ye may be heard where ye're no seen."
"British","Ye maun spoil or ye spin."
"British","Ye look like a rinner, quo' the deil to the lobster."
"British","Ye learn your father to get bairns."
"British","Ye hae the best end a' the string."
"British","With patience the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown."
"British","Ye canna mak a silk purse out o' a sow's lug."
"British","Ye'll beguile nane but them that lippens to you."
"British","Wrath often consumes what goodness husbands."
"British","Work for nought makes folks dead lazy."
"British","Words are but wind, but blows unkind."
"British","Words and feathers the wind carries away."
"British","Wonder at your auld shoon when ye hae gotten your new."
"British","Women's counsel is cold."
"British","Wives must be had, be they good or bad."
"British","Well goes the case when wisdom counsels."
"British","Ye hae been smelling the bung."
"British","Yourself first, others afterward."
"British","Ye're very foresighted, like Forsyth's cat."
"British","You can lead a horse to water but you cannot make it drink."
"British","You can't tell a book by its cover."
"British","You cannot catch old birds with chaff."
"British","You cannot run with the hare and hunt with the hounds."
"British","You may break a horse's back, be he never so strong."
"British","You win some, you lose some."
"British","Young folk may dee, auld folk maun dee."
"British","Ye wad marry a midden for the muck."
"British","Your thrift's as gude as the profit o' a yeld hen."
"British","Ye'll be hang'd and I'll be harried."
"British","Youth never casts for peril."
"British","Zeal without knowledge is a runaway horse."
"British","Truth often hides in an ugly pool."
"British","Ye're like a bad liver--the last day there's aye maist to do wi' ye."
"British","Ye're black aboot the mou' for want o' kissing."
"British","Ye're a foot behint the foremost."
"British","Ye'll no sell your hen in a rainy day."
"British","Ye'll neither dee for your wit nor be drowned for a warlock."
"British","With Latin, a horse, and money, you may travel the world."
"British","Your een's greedier than your guts."
"British","When a thing is done, advice comes too late."
"British","When the cow has been sold with firmness you may relax for a while and go for a better one."
"British","When the cat's away the mice will play."
"British","When people have but little property, they take good care of it."
"British","When money speaks the world is silent."
"British","When love cools fauts are seen."
"British","When it thunders in March, it brings sorrow."
"British","When drink's in wit's out."
"British","When drink's in wit's oot."
"British","Wives maun be had whether gude or bad."
"British","When all fruits fails, welcome haws."
"British","When war begins, then hell opens."
"British","When a snake gets warm on ice, then a German will wish well to a Czech."
"British","When a ewie's drowned she's dead."
"British","What's in your wame's not in your testament."
"British","What we first learn we best ken."
"British","What the eye doesn't see, the heart doesn't grieve over."
"British","What the church doesn't take, the exchequer carries away."
"British","What may be done at ony time will be done at nae time."
"British","What greater crime than loss of time?"
"British","When children stand quiet, they have done some ill."
"British","Where your will is ready, your feet are light."
"British","With great learning, a horse, and money, you may travel the world."
"British","With customs we live well, but laws undo us."
"British","Wise men o sittin."
"British","Wipe wi' the water and wash wi' the towel."
"British","Wife and children are bills of charges."
"British","Wide lugs an a short tongue is best."
"British","Who has a woman has an eel by the tail."
"British","Who goes softly goes safely, and he that goes safely goes far."
"British","When the cup is full, carry it even."
"British","Who comes uncalled, sits unserved."
"British","When troubles are few, dreams are few."
"British","Where there's marriage without love, there will be love without marriage."
"British","Where there's a will there's a way."
"British","Where there is no trust there is no love."
"British","Where old age is evil, youth can learn no good."
"British","Where drums beat, laws are dumb."
"British","Where coin is not common, provisions can be scant."
"British","When ye ca' the dog out o' your ain kail-yaird, dinna ca't into mine."
"British","When ye are weel, haud yoursel sae."
"British","Ye're like the miller's dog--ye lick your lips ere the pock be opened."
"British","Who goes a beast to Rome, a beast returns."
"British","Hell has no fury like a woman scorned."
"British","Hope often deludes the foolish man."
"British","Hope is grief's best music."
"British","Hope is a good breakfast but a bad supper."
"British","Hope for the best and prepare for the worst."
"British","Hoist your sail when the wind is fair."
"British","High places have their precipices."
"British","Grass grows not upon the highway."
"British","Heresy is the school of pride."
"British","If fools went not to market, bad wares would not be sold."
"British","Hear twice before you speak once."
"British","Health is not valued till sickness comes."
"British","Health and gaiety foster beauty."
"British","He who works begins well; he who economises ends better."
"British","He who wills the end, wills the means."
"British","He who wants a mule without fault, must walk on foot."
"British","He who peeps through a hole, may see what will vex him."
"British","Heresy may be easier kept out than shook off."
"British","If you yourself can do it, attend no other's help or hand."
"British","It is a proud horse that will not bear his own provender."
"British","It is a poor wood that has never a withered bough in it."
"British","It is a great point of wisdom to find out one's own folly."
"British","It early pricks that will be a thorn."
"British","In the eyes of the lover, pock-marks are dimples."
"British","In many words, the truth goes by."
"British","Ill words are bellows to a slackening fire."
"British","How can the foal amble if the horse and mare trot?"
"British","If youth knew what age would crave, it would both get and save."
"British","Idle folks have the least leisure."
"British","If you would know the value of a ducat, try to borrow one."
"British","If you will learn news, you must go to the oven or the mill."
"British","If you sell your purse to your wife, give your trousers into the bargain."
"British","If you always say ""No', you'll never be married."
"British","If wishes were horses, beggars would ride."
"British","If the dog is not at home, he barks not."
"British","He that would be old long, must be old betimes."
"British","Ill comes often on the back of worse."
"British","He is wise that is ware in time."
"British","He who lives by the sword dies by the sword."
"British","He that gapes until he be fed, well may he gape till he be dead."
"British","He that enquires all opinions, comes ill speed."
"British","He that complies against his will, is of his own opinion still."
"British","He that cannot do better, must be a monk."
"British","He that brings good news, knocks hard."
"British","He plays best that wins."
"British","He that has no good trade, it is to his loss."
"British","He keeps his road well enough who gets rid of bad company."
"British","He that has the spice, may season as he list."
"British","He is wise that is honest."
"British","That sick man is not to be pitied who has his cure in his sleeve."
"British","He is the best general who makes the fewest mistakes."
"British","Remorse is lust's dessert."
"British","He is an ill husband who is not missed."
"British","Handsome is as handsome does."
"British","Meat is much, but manners is better."
"British","He must have leave to speak who cannot hold his tongue."
"British","He that puts on a public gown must put off a private person."
"British","It is best to be off with the old love before you are on with the new."
"British","He that woos a widow must woo her day and night."
"British","He that will not be counselled, cannot be helped."
"British","He that will be rich before night, may be hanged before noon."
"British","He that tells his wife news, is but newly married."
"British","He that stays in the valley, shall never get over the hill."
"British","He that speaks ill of the mare would buy her."
"British","He that has no children brings them up well."
"British","He that rises late, must trot all day."
"British","He that would have eggs must endure the cackling of hens."
"British","He that pities another remembers himself."
"British","He that nothing questions, nothing learns."
"British","He that marries ere he be wise, will die ere he thrive."
"British","He that makes a good war, makes a good peace."
"British","He that lives well is learned enough."
"British","He that lives in hope dances to an ill tune."
"British","He that is ill to himself will be good to nobody."
"British","He that seeks a horse or a wife without fault, has neither steed in his stable nor angel in his bed."
"British","Long visits bring short compliments."
"British","Life is short and time is swift."
"British","Love laughs at locksmiths."
"British","Love lasts as long as money endures."
"British","Love is the true reward of love."
"British","Love is full of fear."
"British","Love is as strong as death."
"British","Love covers many infirmities."
"British","Maidens should be meek till they be married."
"British","Look to yourself when your neighbour's house is on fire."
"British","Make hay while the sun shines."
"British","Long absence and guilt can change a friend."
"British","Live and let live."
"British","Little intermeddling makes good friends."
"British","Little and often fills the purse."
"British","Literature is a good staff but a bad crutch."
"British","Like counsellor, like counsel."
"British","It is a sorry flock where the ewe bears the bell."
"British","Love begets love."
"British","Many a one for land takes a fool by the hand."
"British","Marry your son when you will, your daughter when you can."
"British","Marry your like."
"British","Marry in haste, and repent at leisure."
"British","Marriage halves our griefs, doubles our joys, and quadruples our expenses."
"British","Many women, many words; many geese, many turds."
"British","Many lords, many laws."
"British","Many dogs may easily worry one hare."
"British","Love me little, love me long."
"British","Many a one says well that thinks ill."
"British","Life is not all beer and skittles."
"British","Many a one blames his wife for his own unthrift."
"British","Many a good cow has an evil calf."
"British","Many a cloud has a silver lining."
"British","Manners make often fortunes."
"British","Man, woman, and devil, are the three degrees of comparison."
"British","Man learns little from success, but much from failure."
"British","Make not your sail too big for the ballast."
"British","Many a true word is spoken in jest."
"British","It is good to marry late or never."
"British","Lightning never strikes twice in the same place."
"British","It is not work that kills, but worry."
"British","It is not what is he, but what has he."
"British","It is not the beard that makes the philosopher."
"British","It is no time to stoop when the head is off."
"British","It is no sin to sell dear, but a sin to give ill measure."
"British","It is ill sitting at Rome and striving against the Pope."
"British","It is too late to call back yesterday."
"British","It is hard to sail over the sea in an egg-shell."
"British","It should be better to blame friends at a distance."
"British","It is good to have a hatch before the door."
"British","It is good sheltering under an old hedge."
"British","It is good grafting on a good stock."
"British","It is easy to bear the misfortunes of others."
"British","It is better to be a beggar than a fool."
"British","It is best to be on the safe side."
"British","Grace will last, beauty will blast."
"British","It is height makes Grantham steeple stand awry."
"British","Knowledge without practice makes but half an artist."
"British","Let the bait hide the hook."
"British","Let my lamp at midnight hour be seen in some high lonely tower."
"British","Let him that pays the reckoning choose the lodging."
"British","Let every sheep hang by his own shank."
"British","Lead a pig to the Rhine, it remains a pig."
"British","Laziness goes so slowly that poverty overtakes it."
"British","Lawyers' gowns are lined with the wilfulness of their clients."
"British","It is profound ignorance that inspires the dogmatic tone."
"British","Labour is light where love pays."
"British","It is an ill bird that fouls its own nest."
"British","Kings have many ears and many eyes."
"British","Kill not the goose that lays the golden egg."
"British","Keep something for the sore foot."
"British","Keep something for a rainy day."
"British","Keep good men company, and you shall be of the number."
"British","It was the last straw that broke the camel's back."
"British","It takes two to tango."
"British","Law is a lickpenny."
"British","A vain belief, unprofitable."
"British","After a typhoon there are pears to gather up."
"British","Adversity is the touchstone of virtue."
"British","Absence is the mother of disillusion."
"British","A word to the wise is enough."
"British","A woman's advice is no great thing, but he who won't take it is a fool."
"British","A woman and a cherry are painted for their own harm."
"British","Great birth is a very poor dish at table."
"British","A wise man cares not for what he cannot have."
"British","Ambition makes people diligent."
"British","A truly great man never puts away the simplicity of a child."
"British","A surgeon experiments on the heads of orphans."
"British","A straight stick looks crooked in the water."
"British","A stitch in time saves nine."
"British","A solitary man is either a beast or an angel."
"British","A small leak will sink a great ship."
"British","A sharp stomach makes short devotion."
"British","A wise man is a great wonder."
"British","An inch of gold will not buy an inch of time."
"British","Bad news travels fast."
"British","Authority shows the man."
"British","Arthur could not tame woman's tongue."
"British","Appear in your own colours, that folk may know you."
"British","Anger is a short madness."
"British","Anger begins with folly, and ends with repentance."
"British","An ounce of mother is worth a ton of priest."
"British","After-wit is dear bought."
"British","An old cart well used may outlast a new one abused."
"British","All is not lost that is in danger."
"British","An ill tongue may do much."
"British","An honest man's word is as good as his bond."
"British","An eel by his tail, an Irishman at his word."
"British","An atheist is one point beyond the devil."
"British","An army of stags led by a lion would be more formidable than one of lions led by a stag."
"British","Ambition makes people scorn rustic living."
"British","A rich man's joke is not always funny."
"British","An ounce of luck is worth a pound of wisdom."
"British","A crown is no cure for the headache."
"British","A rolling stone gathers no moss."
"British","A heavy purse makes a light heart."
"British","A handful of good life, is better than a bushel of learning."
"British","A good paymaster never wants workmen."
"British","A good lawyer, an evil neighbour."
"British","A good archer is not known by his arrows, but his aim."
"British","A gentleman ought to travel abroad, but dwell at home."
"British","A house is a fine house when good folks are within."
"British","A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple."
"British","A house well-furnished makes a woman wise."
"British","A child's service is little, yet he is no little fool that despises it."
"British","A cheerful wife is a joy of life."
"British","A chain is no stronger than its weakest link."
"British","A cat has nine lives."
"British","A black plum is as sweet as a white."
"British","A beggar can never be bankrupt."
"British","A bad shearer never had a good sickle."
"British","A fair wife and a frontier castle breed quarrels."
"British","A man that breaks his word, bids others be false to him."
"British","Beauty is eloquent even when silent."
"British","A ragged colt may make a good horse."
"British","A problem shared is a problem halved."
"British","A pound of care will not pay an ounce of debt."
"British","A poor man's table is soon spread."
"British","A penny-weight of love is worth a pound of law."
"British","A mother's love never ages."
"British","A horn spoon holds no poison."
"British","A man without reason is a beast in season"
"British","A rich man's money often hangs him."
"British","A man of great memory without learning. has a distaff and a spindle, and no stuff to spin."
"British","A man may woo where he will, but he will wed where his luck lies."
"British","A man may say too much, even upon the best subjects."
"British","A man is known to be mortal by two things, sleep and lust."
"British","A little body often harbours a great soul."
"British","A lean fee is a fit reward for a lazy clerk."
"British","A hungry man is glad to get boiled wheat."
"British","A man's studies pass into his character."
"British","Every cloud has a silver lining."
"British","Don't eat the calf in the cow's belly."
"British","Fair exchange is no robbery."
"British","Eyes are bigger than your belly."
"British","Experience is the mother of wisdom."
"British","Everything is good in its season."
"British","Every why has a wherefore."
"British","Every tub must stand on its own bottom."
"British","Far from court, far from care."
"British","Every man will have his own turn served."
"British","Few lawyers die well, few physicians live well."
"British","Ell and tell is good merchandise."
"British","Easter so longed for is gone in a day."
"British","Dying men speak true."
"British","Drive your business, do not let it drive you."
"British","Don't teach your grandmother to suck eggs."
"British","Don't meet troubles half-way."
"British","Bashfulness is an enemy to poverty."
"British","Every one thinks his sack heaviest."
"British","From a choleric man withdraw a little; from him that says nothing for ever."
"British","Good words cost nought."
"British","Good wine needs no bush."
"British","Good men suffer much."
"British","Good fences make good neighbours."
"British","Good fame is better than a good face."
"British","Gold is part of a plot."
"British","Gold dust blinds all eyes."
"British","Fair words will not make the pot boil."
"British","Give credit where credit is due."
"British","Don't cross your bridges before you come to them."
"British","Fortune is weary to carry one and the same man always."
"British","Fortune is blind."
"British","Fools build houses, and wise men buy them."
"British","Fly that pleasure which pains afterward."
"British","First try and then trust."
"British","First things first."
"British","Finders keepers, losers seekers."
"British","Gluttony kills more than the sword."
"British","Better late than never."
"British","Don't look a gift horse in the mouth."
"British","Birds in their little nests agree."
"British","Beware of ""Had I known""."
"British","Better wit than wealth."
"British","Better untaught than ill taught."
"British","Better to pay and have little than have much and be in debt."
"British","Better to have than wish."
"British","Biting and scratching is Scots folk's wooing."
"British","Better spare to have of your own, than ask of other men."
"British","Blue are the faraway hills."
"British","Better keep now than seek anon."
"British","Better hand loose than in an ill tethering."
"British","Better go to heaven in rags than to hell in embroidery."
"British","Better cut the shoe than pinch the foot."
"British","Bees that have honey in their mouths have stings in their tails."
"British","Beauty's sister is vanity, and its daughter lust."
"British","He is wise that has wit enough for his own affairs."
"British","Better to ask the way than go astray."
"British","Command your man, and do it yourself."
"British","Don't cross the bridge till you get to it."
"British","Do on the hill as you would do in the hall."
"British","Do no business with a kinsman."
"British","Delays are not denials."
"British","Debts remain from day to day."
"British","Custom without reason is but ancient error."
"British","Crowns have cares."
"British","Birds of a feather flock together."
"British","Counsel must be followed, not praised."
"British","Beauty and folly go often in company."
"British","Children learn to creep before they can go."
"British","Children are certain cares, but uncertain comforts."
"British","By continually striving for the best, one may waste good opportunities."
"British","Business is business."
"British","Burning the candle at both ends."
"British","Burn not your house to fright the mouse away."
"British","Bob's your uncle."
"British","Craft must have clothes, but truth loves to go naked."
"British","One acre of performance, is worth twenty of the land of promise."
"British","Out of debt, out of danger."
"British","Old age is a hospital that takes in all diseases."
"British","Old be, or young die."
"British","Old love will not be forgotten."
"British","Old men, when they marry young women, make much of death."
"British","Old saws speak truth."
"British","On painting and fighting look aloof."
"British","Of soup and love, the first is the best."
"British","Once a use and ever a custom."
"British","Of a thorn springs not a fig."
"British","One can love and be wise."
"British","One good turn deserves another."
"British","One kindness is the price of another."
"British","One man's meat is another man's poison."
"British","One swallow does not make a summer."
"British","One thief will not rob another."
"British","One's own fire is pleasant."
"British","No man better knows what good is than he who has endured evil."
"British","On the day of victory no fatigue is felt."
"British","No rose without a thorn."
"British","No man can make his own good luck."
"British","No man can play the fool so well as the wise man."
"British","No man has a worse friend than he brings from home."
"British","No man is indispensable."
"British","No man so wise but he may be deceived."
"British","No mischief but a woman or a priest is at the bottom of it."
"British","No one ought to be judge in his own cause."
"British","Old age doesn't protect from folly."
"British","No root, no fruit."
"British","Out of sight, out of mind."
"British","No summer, but has its winter."
"British","No wrong without a remedy."
"British","None so deaf as those who will not hear."
"British","Not a few proverbs are dear children of experience."
"British","Nothing enters into a close hand."
"British","Nothing ventured nothing gained."
"British","Nurture and good manners makes man."
"British","Obedience is much more seen in little things than in great."
"British","No pleasure without pain."
"British","Sometimes clemency is cruelty, and cruelty clemency."
"British","Opportunity makes the thief."
"British","Seek and you shall find."
"British","Seek much, and get something; seek little, and get nothing."
"British","Seek that which may be found."
"British","Seldom seen, soon forgotten."
"British","Set a beggar on horseback, and he'll ride to the devil."
"British","Sin is the root of much sorrow."
"British","Riches take away more pleasures than they give."
"British","Soft fire makes sweet malt."
"British","Rich folk have many friends."
"British","Soon learnt, soon forgotten."
"British","Sound advice had better be welcome."
"British","Meddle not with another man's matter."
"British","Such beginning, such end."
"British","He is lifeless that is faultless."
"British","Take heed is a fair thing."
"British","Tell not all you know, all you have, or all you can do."
"British","That fish will soon be caught that nibbles at every bait."
"British","Small birds must have meat."
"British","Poverty is an enemy to good manners."
"British","Out of the frying pan into the fire."
"British","Pay what you owe and you'll know what you're worth."
"British","Peace makes plenty."
"British","Pleasures shorten tedious nights."
"British","Plenty breeds pride."
"British","Poison is poison though it comes in a golden cup."
"British","Policy goes beyond strength."
"British","Salt water and absence wash away love."
"British","Possession is nine points of the law."
"British","Spare to speak and spare to speed."
"British","Poverty is no disgrace, but it is a great inconvenience."
"British","Poverty wants many things, and avarice all."
"British","Present to the eye, present to the mind."
"British","Put new wine into old bottles.."
"British","Put not fire to flax."
"British","Quarrelsome dogs get dirty coats."
"British","Religion, credit, and the eye are not to be touched."
"British","Repentance is good, but innocence is better."
"British","Poor men go to heaven as soon as rich."
"British","Money makes the pot boil."
"British","Near is my shirt, but nearer is my skin."
"British","Misfortunes hasten age."
"British","Sweet are the uses of adversity."
"British","No living man all things can."
"British","Much travel is needed to ripen a man's rawness."
"British","Much science, much sorrow."
"British","Much coin, much care."
"British","Misfortune is not that which can be avoided, but that which cannot."
"British","Misfortunes come of themselves."
"British","Medicines are not meat to live by."
"British","Men are best loved furthest off."
"British","Men are not angels."
"British","Never lend that thing you most need."
"British","Misery loves company."
"British","New meat begets a new appetite."
"British","Mind other men, but most yourself."
"British","No garden without its weeds."
"British","Men get wealth and women keep it."
"British","Mettle is dangerous in a blind horse."
"British","Never too late to learn."
"British","Men make houses, women make homes."
"British","Never refuse a good offer."
"British","Necessity is the mother of invention."
"British","Never be boastful; someone may pass who knew you as a child."
"British","Never lay sorrow to your heart when others lay it to their heels."
"British","Biting and scratching is Scots folk's wooing."
"British","Love laughs at locksmiths."
"British","The cow that's first up gets the first of the dew."
"Buddhist","You, yourself, must make the effort. The buddhas are only teachers."
"Buddhist","Eat when you're hungry. Drink when you're thirsty. Sleep when you're tired."
"Buddhist","If we are facing in the right direction, all we have to do is keep on walking."
"Buddhist","You can explore the universe looking for somebody who is more deserving of your love and affection than you are, and you will not find that person anywhere."
"Buganda","A strawberry blossom will not sweeten dry bread."
"Buganda","He who hunts two rats, catches none."
"Buganda","By trying often, the monkey learns to jump from the tree."
"Buganda","When the moon is not full, the stars shine more brightly."
"Buganda","He who is bitten by a snake fears a lizard."
"Buganda","If you burn a house, can you conceal the smoke?"
"Buganda","The heart of the wise man lies quiet like limpid water."
"Buganda","When the master is absent, the frogs hop into the house."
"Bugandan","When the master is absent, the frogs hop into the house."
"Bugandan","The talker will lead the dog to the meat market."
"Bugandan","If you burn a house, can you conceal the smoke?"
"Bugandan","If you burn a house, can you conceal the smoke?"
"Bugandan","The talker will lead the dog to the meat market."
"Bugandan","When the master is absent, the frogs hop into the house."
"Bulgarian","He that sleeps with a dog, should bear its fleas."
"Bulgarian","He that has a hawk has three hundred partridges."
"Bulgarian","He that flies high falls low down."
"Bulgarian","He that feels sorry for the shoe, loses the horse."
"Bulgarian","He that believes in dreams pastures the winds."
"Bulgarian","Have your cake and eat it too."
"Bulgarian","God promises a safe landing but not a smooth passage."
"Bulgarian","Gravediggers have their own gravediggers too."
"Bulgarian","Go hunting for rabbits - be eaten by wolves."
"Bulgarian","Grapes do not grow in a willow tree."
"Bulgarian","God does not pay every Saturday."
"Bulgarian","God is not without sins: He created the world."
"Bulgarian","God gives but does not lock the gate."
"Bulgarian","He that wills not to feed a cat feeds the mice."
"Bulgarian","Give me, mother, luck at my birth, then throw me if you will on the rubbish heap."
"Bulgarian","He, who gets angry, grows old fast."
"Bulgarian","Hasty work - shame for its creator."
"Bulgarian","He who steals the minaret shall find a case to hide it."
"Bulgarian","If God should listen to rooks, he should send a plague to horses."
"Bulgarian","I Gave Up smoking, smoking would not give me up."
"Bulgarian","Hungry bear doesn't dance."
"Bulgarian","Hunger is a bigger master than the king."
"Bulgarian","Burning the quilt because of the fleas."
"Bulgarian","Give me money to buy myself a purse to put my money in."
"Bulgarian","He, who gives much, will soon start begging."
"Bulgarian","He who undertakes too many jobs does none."
"Bulgarian","Hell is also made for people."
"Bulgarian","He who believes in dreams feeds on wind."
"Bulgarian","He who lives by the sword shall die by the sword."
"Bulgarian","He who lies, hangs from a gallows - he who does not, hangs twice."
"Bulgarian","He who laughs last, laughs best."
"Bulgarian","He who keeps his old clothes, gains new ones too."
"Bulgarian","He who has been at the mill has flour on his hat."
"Bulgarian","He who does not work, must not eat."
"Bulgarian","He who digs someone else's grave shall fall in it himself."
"Bulgarian","He who breaks his word shall through his word be broken."
"Bulgarian","He, who buys what he does not need, sells what he needs."
"Bulgarian","A Joke may have children born."
"Bulgarian","Death is closer than the shirt."
"Bulgarian","A Word makes no hole, a pinch tears no underskirt."
"Bulgarian","A word about to be spoken is like a stone that is ready to be thrown."
"Bulgarian","A tree falls the way it leans."
"Bulgarian","A song belongs to no one."
"Bulgarian","A Single hand cannot wash itself even in the Danube river."
"Bulgarian","A person is known by the company he keeps."
"Bulgarian","A lion lurks in everyone's heart; awake him not."
"Bulgarian","Bandage up your finger and take a walk in the village to see how many medical people you will meet."
"Bulgarian","A lie has no legs."
"Bulgarian","Because of John hating St. John."
"Bulgarian","A house without a woman is like a fire without a bucket."
"Bulgarian","A Haughty person will not even reach down to take his own nose if it had fallen to the ground."
"Bulgarian","A Good son needs no inheritance, the bad needs none."
"Bulgarian","A good friend is recognized in times of trouble."
"Bulgarian","A good cock can never have too many hens."
"Bulgarian","A gentle word opens an iron gate."
"Bulgarian","A fortress surrenders from within."
"Bulgarian","A crow will never be a dove."
"Bulgarian","A crow a crow's eyes doesn't peck."
"Bulgarian","A lie's legs are short."
"Bulgarian","Drop by drop - a whole lake becomes."
"Bulgarian","From the promise to the deed is a day's journey."
"Bulgarian","For the blind sellers there are blind buyers."
"Bulgarian","Flies plough the ox' horns."
"Bulgarian","Feed a dog to bark at you."
"Bulgarian","Eyes see everything but themselves."
"Bulgarian","Every tree has its worm to eat it."
"Bulgarian","Every frog must know its sole-leather."
"Bulgarian","Every frog has his own pond."
"Bulgarian","As you sow, so shall you reap."
"Bulgarian","Either the camel, or the camel man."
"Bulgarian","From walking -- something; from sitting -- nothing."
"Bulgarian","Draw water from the new well, but do not spit in the old one."
"Bulgarian","Don't cry at somebody else's grave."
"Bulgarian","Do not put all eggs in one basket."
"Bulgarian","If Only youth had knowledge and old age ability."
"Bulgarian","Dead horses can't kick."
"Bulgarian","Burning the poor man's candles, counting the rich man's money."
"Bulgarian","Blood is thicker than water."
"Bulgarian","Blessed wine, cursed drinking."
"Bulgarian","Better the grave than a slave."
"Bulgarian","Embrace the snake and it will bite you."
"Bulgarian","The Sluggard works twice, the niggard pays twice."
"Bulgarian","The First glass is for health, the second - for joy, the third - for fun, the fourth - for madness."
"Bulgarian","They said to the fox, the fox said to its tail."
"Bulgarian","They do not want him in the village, he asks for the priest's house."
"Bulgarian","There's no flock without carrion."
"Bulgarian","There is no boneless fish."
"Bulgarian","The wolf has a thick neck, because he does his job on his own."
"Bulgarian","The wolf changes only his coat -- not his character."
"Bulgarian","The wife carries the husband on her face; the husband carries the wife on his clothes."
"Bulgarian","The Wealthy man has even his crow laying him eggs."
"Bulgarian","The village feeds the town."
"Bulgarian","The Sun shines on mud, but does not get muddy."
"Bulgarian","Three hundred ravens are scattered by one stone."
"Bulgarian","The Sparrows quarrel over somebody else's millet."
"Bulgarian","To the donkey thorns taste better than hay."
"Bulgarian","The Sea has decided to drown itself in the river."
"Bulgarian","The pear does not fall far from the tree."
"Bulgarian","The Older one marries, the longer the nights."
"Bulgarian","The Old man is not asked where he aches, but why he does not ache there."
"Bulgarian","The nice apples are always eaten by nasty pigs."
"Bulgarian","The neighbor's chicken is a duck."
"Bulgarian","The Mosquito weighs 99 kilos on his own scale."
"Bulgarian","The Meek lamb sucks from two mothers."
"Bulgarian","The Hump is straightened only by the grave."
"Bulgarian","The horse went into the river."
"Bulgarian","If you can't be good, be careful."
"Bulgarian","The Stronghold is taken from within."
"Bulgarian","When the sea turned to honey, the poor man lost his spoon."
"Bulgarian","You will sell more sheepskins at the market than wolfskins."
"Bulgarian","You monk, do you want us to give you in marriage?"
"Bulgarian","You can't find stupidity in the forest."
"Bulgarian","You can take a horse to water, but you can not make him drink."
"Bulgarian","You are permitted in times of great danger to walk with the devil until you have crossed the bridge."
"Bulgarian","Wriggling hands like young bride's legs."
"Bulgarian","With one bullet - two rabbits."
"Bulgarian","With a king it is the same as with fire - stay neither close by, nor too far away."
"Bulgarian","Why should I shave when God doesn't?"
"Bulgarian","Why didn't the midwife, who cut your naval string, cut your head instead?"
"Bulgarian","Whip the saddle and give the mule something to think about it."
"Bulgarian","Thirsty men make good prophets."
"Bulgarian","When the Turk becomes richer he takes another wife."
"Bulgarian","The eye that sees all things else, sees not itself."
"Bulgarian","When the sea turned into honey, the poor man lost his spoon."
"Bulgarian","When given a kingdom, the gypsy asks: what about bread?"
"Bulgarian","When a Bulgar gets rich he builds himself another house."
"Bulgarian","What the devil is unable to do, he asks a woman to do?"
"Bulgarian","We had a dog, it helped the wolf."
"Bulgarian","Water washes up everything but shame."
"Bulgarian","Watch your step when you walk: you may find nothing but you will not stumble."
"Bulgarian","Wait horse for green grass."
"Bulgarian","Unfenced garden - fenced in desert."
"Bulgarian","Two happy days are seldom brothers."
"Bulgarian","Too many barbers would be ready to shave the beard of a beardless man."
"Bulgarian","Where shepherds are lots, sheep are lost."
"Bulgarian","If you light one candle for God, then you must light two for the devil."
"Bulgarian","The fox falls into the trap only once."
"Bulgarian","Man is harder than a stone and more brittle than an egg."
"Bulgarian","Life is a stairway - some are going up, others are going down."
"Bulgarian","Life is a ladder -- some will climb up it, others down."
"Bulgarian","Let the man who has suffered ask it -- not the man who has travelled."
"Bulgarian","It is easy to be the father of children already born."
"Bulgarian","It is easier to fondle lassies, than to cut timbers."
"Bulgarian","If your neighbor's house is on fire, make haste to put out the fire in your own house."
"Bulgarian","If you would live long, open your heart."
"Bulgarian","If you wish to drown, do not torture yourself with shallow water."
"Bulgarian","If you want to drown yourself, don't torture yourself with shallow water."
"Bulgarian","Measure twice, cut once."
"Bulgarian","If you want apples, you have to shake the trees."
"Bulgarian","Money tempts women, women tempt men."
"Bulgarian","If you let everyone walk over you, then you become a carpet."
"Bulgarian","If you have no enemies think then that your own mother might have produced one."
"Bulgarian","If you go to sleep with the blind, you'll wake up squinting."
"Bulgarian","If you cannot serve, you cannot rule."
"Bulgarian","If you can't beat em, join em."
"Bulgarian","An axe without a shaft is no threat to the forest."
"Bulgarian","If you can't be good, then be careful."
"Bulgarian","If you can kiss the mistress, never kiss the maid."
"Bulgarian","If you call one wolf, you invite the pack."
"Bulgarian","If you break the fast, better eat pork, not curds."
"Bulgarian","If you are going to drown, do not try it in shallow water."
"Bulgarian","If you want to annoy the devil stay silent."
"Bulgarian","Ravens do not peck each other's eyes out."
"Bulgarian","The earth is man's only friend."
"Bulgarian","The Drum is large but empty."
"Bulgarian","The droplet is always at its largest just before it drops."
"Bulgarian","The Donkey, though it may go to the Holy Land, will still come back a donkey."
"Bulgarian","The Dog barks to keep itself, not the village."
"Bulgarian","The crow pecks at the ox to clean it -- not to feed from it."
"Bulgarian","The Chicken teaches the hen to lay eggs."
"Bulgarian","The Blind hen, when it sees again, wants even to mount the cock."
"Bulgarian","The Bad tax-collector will sell one of your oxen, the good one - both."
"Bulgarian","Tell the blind he is eyeless, and he will get mad at you."
"Bulgarian","Talk of the devil - and the devil appears."
"Bulgarian","Many people wash their hands to have dinner with the bishop, only a few sit down to his table."
"Bulgarian","Seize the opportunity by the beard, for it is bald behind."
"Bulgarian","If The Priest is used to get drunk, the people do not sober at all."
"Bulgarian","Pretty wife, old wine -- many friends."
"Bulgarian","Out of sight, out of mind."
"Bulgarian","Only other people's eggs are double-yolked."
"Bulgarian","One swallow doesn't make a spring."
"Bulgarian","One learns as long as one lives and still dies a fool."
"Bulgarian","One gentle word opens a gate of iron."
"Bulgarian","One does not get crucified, one crucifies oneself."
"Bulgarian","Not Every nun becomes Mother Superior."
"Bulgarian","No hero without a wound."
"Bulgarian","New day -- new destiny."
"Bulgarian","Mother Nature, time and patience are the three best doctors."
"Bulgarian","Take a big bite, but don't say a big word."
"Bulgarian","Bad weather gets better, a bad man never does."
"Bulgarian","God promises a safe landing but not a smooth passage."
"Bulgarian","If you let everyone walk over you, you become a carpet."
"Bulgarian","If you can't be good, be careful."
"Bulgarian","Seize opportunity by the beard, for it is bald behind."
"Bulgarian","If you wish to drown, do not torture yourself with shallow water."
"Bulgarian","When the sea turned into honey, the poor man lost his spoon."
"Bulgarian","If you can't beat em, join em."
"Bulgarian","If you call one wolf, you invite the pack."
"Bulgarian","God promises a safe landing but not a calm passage."
"Bulgarian","A gentle word opens an iron gate."
"Bulgarian","If you let everyone walk over you, you become a carpet."
"Bulgarian","If you can kiss the mistress, never kiss the maid."
"Burkina Faso","An axe does not cut down a tree by itself."
"Burmese","Strength is defeated by a strong strategy. Every road leads somewhere."
"Burmese","Sparrows who mimic peacocks are likely to break a thigh."
"Burmese","Sparrows who mimic peacocks are likely to break a thigh."
"Burmese","Sparrows who emulate peacocks are likely to break a thigh."
"Burmese","Snake to snake, see the leg."
"Burmese","Seven days is the length of a guest's life."
"Burmese","Seek wisdom like a begger."
"Burmese","Parents are the first teachers of the children."
"Burmese","The blind person never fears ghosts."
"Burmese","Only your real friends will tell you when your face is dirty."
"Burmese","Only with a new ruler do you realize the value of the old."
"Burmese","One sesame seed won't make oil."
"Burmese","One can't die if he's brave. Even when he die his name lasts forever."
"Burmese","Old cows like young grass."
"Burmese","No matter how much care is taken, someone will always be misled."
"Burmese","No child was ever born without having been conceived."
"Burmese","Regrets always come later."
"Burmese","Using up the arrows, before getting into battle."
"Burmese","You fail if you're afraid. Or brave, you may become a king."
"Burmese","You can stop speaking to someone, but you cannot stop being related."
"Burmese","You can pull back your leg, but not your committed word."
"Burmese","You can even be a God, if you try."
"Burmese","You can be a king, if you are brave."
"Burmese","Wise man's anger never comes out."
"Burmese","Strength is defeated by a strong strategy. Every road leads somewhere."
"Burmese","Water can wear away even the hardest rock."
"Burmese","The anger of the prudent never shows."
"Burmese","Unmistakable lawyer. Immortal medicineman."
"Burmese","Two may become enemies, when their ideas are the same."
"Burmese","There's only 2 ways: go cracy, or go extraordinary."
"Burmese","The voluntary obedience of people depends on who is commanding them."
"Burmese","The excessively kind-hearted person becomes a slave."
"Burmese","The child who is given everything he asks for usually won't succeed in life."
"Burmese","It's like catching 2 eels at a time."
"Burmese","When it rains, collect the water."
"Burmese","A stupid act entails doing the work twice over."
"Burmese","Many people count other people's faults and ignore their own."
"Burmese","Bone in chicken, relatives in man."
"Burmese","Beware of a man's shadow and a bee's sting."
"Burmese","Before the bending arm straighten, or before the?straighten arm bends."
"Burmese","Be deligent when there's time."
"Burmese","Anyone can?fancy his bed as a palace."
"Burmese","Collect the water while it rains."
"Burmese","Alertness and courage are life's shield."
"Burmese","Do use a needle in time, or you might need an axe later."
"Burmese","A stitch in time saves nine."
"Burmese","A ship-load of fish gets spoiled, because of 1 spoiled fish."
"Burmese","A hero only appears once the tiger is dead."
"Burmese","A good character is real beauty that never fades."
"Burmese","A genuine ruby wont sink and disappear in mud."
"Burmese","A diligent person will soon prosper."
"Burmese","1 day 1 yard. Bagan won't move."
"Burmese","An unmarried?woman is not honored, even if she has 10 brothers."
"Burmese","Harrow before?the cow."
"Burmese","Wisdom is in the books."
"Burmese","It's dress in?a man, bindings in baskets' edge."
"Burmese","If you trust before you try, You will repent before you die."
"Burmese","If you truly want honesty, don't ask questions you don't really want the answer to."
"Burmese","If you take big paces you leave big spaces."
"Burmese","If you really want honesty, then don't ask questions you don't really want the answer to."
"Burmese","Calling out for mother, only when you stumble."
"Burmese","If there are too many teachers or leaders with different ideas, the follower will not do nothing and learn nothing."
"Burmese","Mango among fruits, pork among meats, tea among leaves."
"Burmese","Forgetting the cow, when going out to plough."
"Burmese","Fisherman near fisherman. Hunter near hunter."
"Burmese","Fidelity in a king, promise in men."
"Burmese","Excessive talk is sure to include errors."
"Burmese","Even if the truth is buried for centuries, it will eventually come out and thrive."
"Burmese","Don't use up your arrows before you go to battle."
"Burmese","Don't be a sling bag."
"Burmese","If you like what you are doing, nothing is too far and no job is too hard. The person who makes an error should be taught, and not made fun of. A good character is more valuable than gold."
"Burmese","Beware of a man's shadow and a bee's sting."
"Burmese","If you trust before you try, You will repent before you die."
"Burmese","Sparrows who emulate peacocks are likely to break a thigh."
"Burmese","Seven days is the length of a guest's life."
"Burmese","Only with a new ruler do you realize the value of the old."
"Burmese","If you truly want honesty, don't ask questions you don't really want the answer to."
"Burmese","If you take big paces you leave big spaces."
"Burmese","Beware of a man's shadow and a bee's sting."
"Burmese","A stupid act entails doing the work twice over."
"Burmese","Only your real friends will tell you when your face is dirty."
"Burundi","Nobody mourns an unnoticed death."
"Burundian","Dogs don't love people, they love the place where they are fed."
"Burundian","The reception has more value than the invitation."
"Burundian","The lazy one is pregnant in the sowing season."
"Burundian","The hyena sleeps with the sheep."
"Burundian","A rich man who does not know himself is worth less than a poor man who does."
"Burundian","A mother's wrath does not survive the night."
"Burundian","Better to kiss an ugly woman than to lick yourself."
"Burundian","Two lightning flashes cannot come from one cloud."
"Burundian","The fetus that is afraid of criticism is never born."
"Burundian","It is easy to pull a thorn out of someone else's skin."
"Burundian","If you are dancing with your rivals, don't close your eyes."
"Burundian","Don't tell any more fairy tales when the child has gone to sleep."
"Burundian","If a young woman says no to marriage just wait until her breasts sag."
"Burundian","An elephant does not get tired carrying his trunk."
"Burundian","Who made the drum knows best what is inside."
"Burundian","You cannot hide the smoke of the hut you set on fire."
"Burundian","Too many words blacken your ears."
"Burundian","Without effort no harvest will be abundant."
"Burundian","A mother's behind sins when it sits down."
"Burundian","Who built the drum knows best what is inside."
"Burundian","Where there is love there is no darkness."
"Burundian","When the master of the house tells a lie, then offer him a chair."
"Burundian","When others have received, you may still receive, because God is always present."
"Burundian","You can hide a mark on your skin, but not a defect."
"Cambodian","The boat sails by, the shore remains."
"Cambodian","For news of the heart ask the face."
"Cambodian","Don't take the straight path or the winding path. Take the path your ancestors have taken."""
"Cambodian","Don't take rich people as examples."
"Cambodian","Don't shoot people you hate; don't lend to those you love."
"Cambodian","Don't reject the crooked road and don't take the straight one, instead take the one traveled by the ancestors."
"Cambodian","If you are doing wrong, make sure you don't get fat from it."
"Cambodian","If you are patient in a moment of anger, you will spare yourself one hundred days of tears."
"Cambodian","Negotiate a river by following its bends, enter a country by following its customs."
"Cambodian","Don't let women who attract attention walk behind you."
"Cambodian","Stealing may bring profit, but hanging costs far more."
"Cambodian","If you know a lot, know enough to make them respect you, if you are stupid, be stupid enough so they can pity you."
"Cambodian","The elephant that is stuck in the mud will tear down the tree with it."
"Cambodian","The immature rice stalk stands erect, while the mature stalk, heavy with grain, bends over."
"Cambodian","The tiger depends on the forest; the forest depends on the tiger."
"Cambodian","With water make rivers, with rice make armies."
"Cambodian","You can't claim heaven as your own if you are just going to sit under it."
"Cambodian","You don't have to cut a tree down to get at the fruit."
"Cambodian","Don't let an angry man wash dishes; don't let a hungry man guard rice."
"Cambodian","People give, but don't be in a hurry to take."
"Cambodian","A husband should not talk of pretty girls in front of his wife."
"Cambodian","Active hands, full bellies."
"Cambodian","Cultivate a heart of love that knows no anger."
"Cambodian","Cultivate a heart of love that knows no anger."
"Cameroon","The rain falls on only one roof."
"Cameroon","He who asks questions, cannot avoid the answers"
"Cameroon","If you do not step on the dog's tail, he will not bite you."
"Cameroon","A chattering bird builds no nest."
"Cameroon","Knowledge is better than riches."
"Cameroon","Rain does not fall on one roof alone."
"Cameroon","The flood takes him in, and the ebb takes him out."
"Cameroon","A man's wealth may be superior to him."
"Cameroon","Thought breaks the heart."
"Cameroon","When the vine entwines your roof, it is time to cut it down."
"Cameroon","The cricket cries, the year changes."
"Cameroonian","Beauty is an empty calabash."
"Cameroonian","Singing birds don't build nests."
"Cameroonian","By trying often, the monkey learns to jump from the tree."
"Cameroonian","Better little than too little."
"Cameroonian","The cricket cries, the year changes."
"Cameroonian","Better a mistake at the beginning than at the end."
"Cameroonian","Every smart man is an ignoramus who abuses his ignorance."
"Cameroonian","If the panther knew how much he is feared, he would do much more harm."
"Cameroonian","The folly of a man is not broadcast like that of a woman."
"Cameroonian","What you don't know, you will not recognize."
"Cameroonian","A bird that allows itself to be caught will find a way of escaping."
"Cameroonian","An elephant will reach to the roof of the house."
"Cameroonian","A man's wealth may be superior to him."
"Cameroonian","A friend is worth more than a brother."
"Cameroonian","By trying repeatedly, the monkey learns how to jump from the tree."
"Cameroonian","She is like a road -- pretty, but crooked."
"Cameroonian","The darkness of night cannot stop the light of morning."
"Cameroonian","A cherry year, a merry year; a plum year, a dumb year."
"Cameroonian","A chattering bird builds no nest."
"Cameroonian","A building of sand falls as you build it."
"Cameroonian","Do not step on the dog's tail, and he will not bite you."
"Cameroonian","It is better to be the victim of injustice than to be unjust yourself."
"Cameroonian","Thought is free."
"Cameroonian","If everyone is going to dance, who, then, would watch?"
"Cameroonian","Knowledge is better than riches."
"Cameroonian","The elephant will reach to the roof of the house."
"Cameroonian","If love is a sickness, patience is the remedy."
"Cameroonian","The fire cannot be put out with your hands."
"Cameroonian","However swift a man, he will not outstrip his shadow."
"Cameroonian","If the fight is tomorrow, why then clench your fist today?"
"Cameroonian","It is the pot that boils but the dish that gets the credit."
"Cameroonian","The flood takes him in, and the ebb takes him out."
"Cameroonian","If you do not step on the dog's tail, he will not bite you."
"Cameroonian","Thought breaks the heart."
"Cameroonian","There is no doctor on the day you die."
"Cameroonian","The heart of the wise man lies quiet like limpid water."
"Cameroonian","If you ask questions, you cannot avoid answers."
"Cameroonian","If the fight is tomorrow, then why should you clench your fist today?"
"Cameroonian","When the vine entwines your roof, it is time to cut it down."
"Cameroonian","Rain does not fall on one roof alone."
"Cameroonian","One father can feed seven children, but seven children cannot feed one father."
"Cameroonian","You come with a cat and call it a rabbit."
"Cameroonian","You cannot produce one human being without uniting two bodies."
"Cameroonian","When the poor man sets a trap only his dog gets caught."
"Cameroonian","He, who asks questions, cannot avoid the answers."
"Cameroonian","No matter how fast a man is, he cannot outrun his shadow."
"Cameroonian","However little you think of the elephant, you can't say it won't fill a pot."
"Cameroonian","Lying will get you a wife, but it won't keep her."
"Cameroonian","Lying can get you a wife, but it won't keep her."
"Cameroonian","The day did not know that night had fallen."
"Cameroonian","Water always finds a way out."
"Cameroonian","The heart of the wise man lies quiet like limpid water."
"Cameroonian","He who asks questions cannot avoid the answers."
"Cameroonian","You come with a cat and call it a rabbit."
"Cameroonian","Thought is free."
"Cameroonian","Thought breaks the heart."
"Cameroonian","Rain does not fall on one roof alone."
"Cameroonian","A chattering bird builds no nest."
"Cameroonian","By trying often, the monkey learns to jump from the tree."
"Cameroonian","A cherry year, a merry year; a plum year, a dumb year."
"Cameroonian","The elephant will reach to the roof of the house."
"Canadian","Walk a mile in my moccasins to learn where they pinch."
"Canadian","Patience is a tree whose root is bitter, but its fruit is very sweet."
"Canadian","The devil places a pillow for a drunken man to fall upon."
"Canadian","When you talk about the sun, you will see her beams."
"Canadian","Do not yell ""dinner"" until your knife is in the loaf."
"Canadian","You can't catch skunks with mice."
"Cape Verde","There is no better mirror than a best friend."
"Catalan","God forgives the sin of gluttony."
"Catalan","It's better that it should make you sick than that you don't eat it at all."
"Catalan","Love does much, money does all."
"Catalan","Secret fire is discovered by its smoke."
"Catalan","He who waits for another's platter has a cold meal."
"Catalan","He who hunts after bargains will scratch his head."
"Catalan","For love of the ox the wolf licks the yoke."
"Catalan","Who is tender in everything is a fool in everything."
"Catalonian","There is always lots of time to die and to pay."
"Catalonian","Secret fire is discovered by its smoke."
"Catalonian","Where the girls are there are no spider's webs."
"Catalonian","The musician who is paid in advance does not play so well."
"Catalonian","Who is tender in everything is a fool in everything."
"Catalonian","The best word is the unspoken word."
"Catalonian","Talking of an old debt always starts another quarrel."
"Catalonian","Show me your wife and I will tell you what kind of a husband she has."
"Catalonian","Love does much, money does all."
"Catalonian","It's better that it should make you sick than that you don't eat it at all."
"Catalonian","In times of famine no bread is stale."
"Catalonian","If all else fails, sleep with your mother."
"Catalonian","He who waits for another's platter has a cold meal."
"Catalonian","He who maligns you in your absence is afraid of your presence."
"Catalonian","God forgives the sin of gluttony."
"Catalonian","Women and cats in the house, men and dogs in the street."
"Catalonian","He who hunts after bargains will scratch his head."
"Catalonian","A mother-in-law made of sugar, still tastes bitter."
"Catalonian","A mother-in-law may be good, but she is better when mother earth covers her up."
"Catalonian","A peasant between two lawyers is like a fish between two cats."
"Catalonian","A whore in spring, a nun in autumn."
"Catalonian","Dancing at the carnival, baptizing on All Saints Day."
"Catalonian","At a wedding a bride eats the least."
"Catalonian","For love of the ox the wolf licks the yoke."
"Celtic","A friend's eye is a good mirror."
"Celtic","A little help is better than a lot of pity."
"Celtic","Say only a little but say it well."
"Cherokee","Have a vision not clouded by fear."
"Cherokee","Don't let yesterday use up too much of today."
"Cherokee","Pay attention to the whispers, so we won't have to listen to the screams."
"Cherokee","The Soul would have no Rainbow if the eyes had no tears."
"Cherokee","When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced. Live your life so that when you die, he world cries and you rejoice."
"Cherokee","Listen with your heart. Learn from your experiences, and always be open to new ones."
"Cherokee","Always remember that a smile is something sacred, to be shared."
"Cheyenne","Beware of the man who does not talk and the dog that does not bark."
"Cheyenne","When you lose the rhythm of the drumbeat of god, you are lost from the peace and rhythm of life."
"Cheyenne","Our pleasures are shallow, our sorrows are deep."
"Cheyenne","Judge not by the eye but by the heart."
"Cheyenne","It's not good for anyone to be alone."
"Cheyenne","Do not judge your neighbor until you walk two moons in his moccasins."
"Cheyenne","A danger foreseen is half-avoided."
"Cheyenne","If a man is as wise as a serpent, he can afford to be as harmless as a dove."
"Chilean","That which is a sin in others is a virtue in ourselves."
"Chilean","Ambition spills the sack."
"Chilean","Where distrust enters, love is no more than a boy."
"Chilean","The little birds have god for their caterer."
"Chilean","No one has done good who has not suffered disillusionment."
"Chilean","Never give thanks for a favor held back."
"Chilean","Never defecate more than what you eat."
"Chilean","My Uncle is sick, but the highway is green."
"Chilean","It is god who cures, and the physician gets the money."
"Chilean","He who finds not love finds nothing."
"Chilean","He who divides and shares, always takes the best part."
"Chilean","Anguish is our worst advisor."
"Chilean","A bad rumor is better than bad news."
"Chilean","God cures, and the doctor gets paid."
"Chinese","A bad word whispered will echo a hundred miles."
"Chinese","A good drum does not have to be beaten hard."
"Chinese","A girl apes her neighbor's frowning."
"Chinese","A girl receives, a widow takes her husband."
"Chinese","A girl that blushes too much, knows too much."
"Chinese","A good bee never lands on a fallen flower."
"Chinese","A good breakfast cannot take the place of the evening meal."
"Chinese","A good client doesn't change shop in three years, a good shop doesn't change clients in three years."
"Chinese","I heard is good; ""I saw"" is better."
"Chinese","A good dog does not block the road."
"Chinese","A fu' sack will tak a clout o' the side."
"Chinese","A good fortune may forebode a bad luck, which may in turn disguise a good fortune."
"Chinese","A good memory is not so good as a little ink."
"Chinese","A good neighbor is a found treasure."
"Chinese","A good storyteller must be able to lie a little."
"Chinese","A governor may commit arson while the governed are not allowed to light a lamp."
"Chinese","A great fortune depends on luck, a small one on diligence."
"Chinese","A good dog does not bite a chicken and a good man does not hit his wife."
"Chinese","A fragrant bloom is not necessarily a beautiful flower; an orator may not be a crackerjack."
"Chinese","A fly before his own eye is bigger than an elephant in the next field."
"Chinese","A flying moth throws itself into a fire."
"Chinese","A fool admires himself most when he has done foolish things."
"Chinese","A fool in a hurry drinks tea with a fork."
"Chinese","A fool judges people by the presents they give him."
"Chinese","A fool's heart is found in his mouth."
"Chinese","A gem is not polished without rubbing, nor a man made perfect without trials."
"Chinese","A fox borrows the tiger's might."
"Chinese","A full bottle makes no sound; a half-bottle sloshes around."
"Chinese","A friend - one soul, two bodies."
"Chinese","A friend -- one soul, two bodies."
"Chinese","A friend made is a road paved; an enemy created is a wall built."
"Chinese","A frog in a well shaft"
"Chinese","A frog in a well-shaft seeing the sky."
"Chinese","A fu purse never lacks freends."
"Chinese","A hasty man never wants woe."
"Chinese","A fox barks not when he would steal the lamb."
"Chinese","A long march starts from the very first step."
"Chinese","A guilty conscience feels continual fear."
"Chinese","A man is old when he takes the whole night to do what he used to do all night long."
"Chinese","A man is happy when he has books, but happier still when he does not need them."
"Chinese","A man grows most tired while standing still."
"Chinese","A man combs his hair every morning -- why not his heart?"
"Chinese","A man can never be perfect in a hundred years; but he may become corrupt in less than a day."
"Chinese","A man must make himself despicable before he is despised by others."
"Chinese","A louse cannot lift the eiderdown."
"Chinese","A man must plough with such oxen as he hath."
"Chinese","A load of books does not equal one good teacher."
"Chinese","A little impatience spoils great plans."
"Chinese","A little body often harbors a great soul."
"Chinese","A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step."
"Chinese","A life with love is happy; a life for love is foolish."
"Chinese","A leopard cannot change its spots."
"Chinese","A lame cat is better than a swift horse when rats infest the palace."
"Chinese","A maker of idols is never an idolater."
"Chinese","A hundred no's are less agonizing than one insincere yes."
"Chinese","A flea on top of a bald head."
"Chinese","A heart that is rotten -- breath that smells."
"Chinese","A hobbling cat is better than a fast horse when rats swarm the palace."
"Chinese","A honeyed mouth hides a daggered heart."
"Chinese","A horse cannot gain weight if not fed with extra fodder during the night; a man cannot become wealthy without earnings apart from his regular salaries."
"Chinese","A horse with two masters is always skinny; the ship with two captains sinks."
"Chinese","A man must despise himself before others will."
"Chinese","A hundred men may make an encampment, but it takes a woman to make a home."
"Chinese","A hasty man drinks his tea with a fork."
"Chinese","A jade stone is useless before it is processed; a man is good-for-nothing until he is educated."
"Chinese","A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step."
"Chinese","A journey of a thousand miles must begin with a single step."
"Chinese","A journey of a thousand miles must begin with a single step."
"Chinese","A man of honor will feel ashamed by a single question to which he does not know the answer."
"Chinese","A man of high principles is someone who can watch a chess game without passing comment."
"Chinese","A man need never revenge himself; the body of his enemy will be brought to his own door."
"Chinese","A hundred ""no's"" are less painful than one insincere ""yes."""
"Chinese","A chicken is hatched even from such a well-sealed thing as an egg."
"Chinese","A cloth is not woven from a single thread."
"Chinese","A book holds a house of gold."
"Chinese","A book is like a garden carried in the pocket."
"Chinese","A book tightly shut is but a block of paper."
"Chinese","A bride received into the home is like a horse that you have just bought; you break her in by constantly mounting her and continually beating her."
"Chinese","A bridle for the tongue is a necessary piece of furniture."
"Chinese","A bit of fragrance clings to the hand that gives flowers."
"Chinese","A chick that will grow into a cock can be spotted the very day it hatches."
"Chinese","A bit of fragrance always sticks to the hand that gives you roses."
"Chinese","A child's life is like a piece of paper on which every passerby leaves a mark."
"Chinese","A child's words have no guile."
"Chinese","A clear conscience is the greatest armor."
"Chinese","A clever doctor never treats himself."
"Chinese","A clever person turns great troubles into little ones, and little ones into none at all."
"Chinese","A client twixt his attorney and counselor is like a goose twixt two foxes."
"Chinese","A flower you plant may not necessarily bloom; but the seed of a tree you happen to drop may grow into a forest."
"Chinese","A buddha made of mud crossing a river cannot protect even himself."
"Chinese","A beautiful flower is incomplete without its leaves."
"Chinese","A man who cannot tolerate small misfortunes can never accomplish great things."
"Chinese","A bad man talks about what he has eaten and drunk -- a good man about what he has seen and heard."
"Chinese","A kind word warms for three winters."
"Chinese","A bad worker quarrels with his tools."
"Chinese","A bad workman blames his tools."
"Chinese","A bar of iron continually ground becomes a needle."
"Chinese","A blind cat catches only a dead rat."
"Chinese","A beautiful bird is the only kind we cage."
"Chinese","A country where flowers are priced so as to make them a luxury has yet to learn the first principles of civilization."
"Chinese","A big tree attracts the gale."
"Chinese","A big tree attracts the wind."
"Chinese","A bird can roost but on one branch, a mouse can drink not more than its fill from a river."
"Chinese","A bird cannot roost but on one branch. a mouse can drink no more than its fill from a river."
"Chinese","A bird does not sing because he has the answer to something, he sings because he has a song."
"Chinese","A bird in your hand is worth more than 100 in the forest."
"Chinese","A bit of fragrance always clings to the hand that gives you roses."
"Chinese","A base person often thinks of a man of honor as mean as himself."
"Chinese","A fallen lighthouse is more dangerous than a reef."
"Chinese","A closed mind is like a closed book; just a block of wood."
"Chinese","A donkey has limited abilities."
"Chinese","A dragon will be teased by a shrimp in a shoal water; a tiger will be bullied by a dog on a treeless plain."
"Chinese","A dream that lasts merely a millet soup's cooking time."
"Chinese","A drop of sweat spent in a drill is a drop of blood saved in a battle."
"Chinese","A dry finger cannot pick up salt."
"Chinese","A dog will jump over a wall when cornered."
"Chinese","A fall into a ditch, a gain in your wit."
"Chinese","A dog shows affection even to a poor family."
"Chinese","A false report rides post."
"Chinese","A feet can be shorter while an inch can be longer."
"Chinese","A fierce dog ruins a liquor store business."
"Chinese","A filthy mouth will not utter decent language."
"Chinese","A fire cannot be wrapped with paper."
"Chinese","A flea on the top of a bald head - it is only too apparent."
"Chinese","A man thinks that he knows it, but his wife knows better."
"Chinese","A fall into a ditch makes you wiser."
"Chinese","A dead songbird gives us no meat."
"Chinese","A courageous foe is better than a cowardly friend."
"Chinese","A courtesy much entreated is half recompensed."
"Chinese","A courtyard common to all will be swept by none."
"Chinese","A crisis is an opportunity riding the dangerous wind."
"Chinese","A curious woman is capable of turning around the rainbow just to see what is on the other side."
"Chinese","A day of grief lasts longer than a month of joy."
"Chinese","A dog won't forsake his master because of poverty; a son never deserts his mother because of her homely appearance."
"Chinese","A day of sorrow is longer than a month of joy."
"Chinese","A flower cannot blossom without sunshine nor a garden without love."
"Chinese","A diamond with a flaw is better than a common stone that is perfect."
"Chinese","A diamond with a flaw is preferable to a common stone with none."
"Chinese","A diamond with a flaw is worth more than a pebble without imperfections."
"Chinese","A dictionary can only be read when it is printed."
"Chinese","A dish of carrot hastily cooked may still has soil not cleaned off the vegetable."
"Chinese","A dog in a kennel barks at his fleas -- a hunting dog does not feel them."
"Chinese","A dog in desperation will leap over a wall."
"Chinese","A day of reading is a day of gain; a day without reading is ten days of loss."
"Chinese","Nature, time and patience are the three great physicians."
"Chinese","Do not employ handsome servants."
"Chinese","Judge not the horse by his saddle."
"Chinese","A man should choose a friend who is better than himself. There are plenty of acquaintances in the world; but very few real friends."
"Chinese","Just as tall trees are known by their shadows, so are good men known by their enemies."
"Chinese","Keep your broken arm inside your sleeve."
"Chinese","Learning is like rowing upstream: not to advance is to drop back."
"Chinese","Listen to all, plucking a feather from every passing goose, but, follow no one absolutely."
"Chinese","Those who do not study are only cattle dressed in men's clothes."
"Chinese","Make happy those who are near, and those who are far will come."
"Chinese","In the midst of great joy do not promise a man anything; in the midst of great anger do not answer a man's letter."
"Chinese","Married couples tell each other a thousand things without speech."
"Chinese","In reviling, it is not necessary to prepare a preliminary draft."
"Chinese","Never do anything standing that you can do sitting, or anything sitting that you can do lying down."
"Chinese","Never write a letter while you are angry."
"Chinese","Of all the thirty-six alternatives, running away is the best."
"Chinese","One generation plants trees, another gets the shade."
"Chinese","There is no economy in going to bed early to save candles if the result is twins."
"Chinese","Sorrow is the child of too much joy."
"Chinese","So long as a man is angry he cannot be in the right."
"Chinese","A sly rabbit will have three openings to its den."
"Chinese","A spectator sees more than a player in the heat of a game."
"Chinese","Rotten wood cannot be carved."
"Chinese","The man who does not learn is dark, like one walking in the night."
"Chinese","To know the road ahead, ask those coming back."
"Chinese","One should be just as careful in choosing one's pleasures as in avoiding calamities."
"Chinese","A single untried popular remedy often throws the scientific doctor into hysterics."
"Chinese","Enjoy yourself. It's later than you think."
"Chinese","Everyone pushes a falling fence."
"Chinese","When eating bamboo sprouts, remember the man who planted them."
"Chinese","Falling hurts least those who fly low."
"Chinese","Use power to curb power."
"Chinese","Forget injuries, never forget kindnesses."
"Chinese","Happiness is like a sunbeam, which the least shadow intercepts, while adversity is often as the rain of spring."
"Chinese","It is harder to be poor without complaining than to be rich without boasting."
"Chinese","He who carves the Buddha never worships him."
"Chinese","A man who has committed a mistake and doesn't correct it is committing another mistake."
"Chinese","To attract good fortune, spend a new coin on an old friend, share an old pleasure with a new friend, and lift up the heart of a true friend by writing his name on the wings of a dragon."
"Chinese","He who hurries can not walk with dignity."
"Chinese","He who sacrifices his conscience to ambition burns a picture to obtain the ashes."
"Chinese","If you are patient in a moment of anger, you will escape a hindred days of sorrow."
"Chinese","If you bow at all, bow low."
"Chinese","If you must play, decide on three things at the start: the rules of he game, the stakes, and the quitting time."
"Chinese","If you see in your wine the reflection of a person not in your range of vision, don't drink it."
"Chinese","If you stand straight, do not fear a crooked shadow."
"Chinese","If you want a crop for one year, grow grain; if you want a crop for ten years, grow a tree; if you want a crop for a hundred years, grow men."
"Chinese","Though you live near a forest, do not waste firewood."
"Chinese","To understand your parents' love, bear your own children."
"Chinese","A reed before the wind lives on, while mighty oaks do fall."
"Chinese","A person of high principles is one who can watch an entire chess game without making a comment."
"Chinese","A person who say it cannot be done should not interrupt the man doing it."
"Chinese","A person whose heart is not content is like a snake which tries to swallow an elephant."
"Chinese","A person with a bad name is already half-hanged."
"Chinese","A person without a smiling face must never open a shop."
"Chinese","A picture is worth ten thousand words."
"Chinese","A Quarter of an hour is worth more than a thousand gold coins."
"Chinese","A ragged colt may make a good horse."
"Chinese","A rat who gnaws at a cat's tail invites destruction."
"Chinese","Rats know the way of rats."
"Chinese","A red-nosed man may not be a drunkard, but he will always be called one."
"Chinese","A patient woman can roast an ox with a lantern."
"Chinese","A resourceful man knows to avoid a disadvantageous situation close at hand."
"Chinese","A rumor goes in one ear and out many mouths."
"Chinese","A rumour goes in one ear and out many mouths."
"Chinese","A satisfied man is happy even if he is poor; a dissatisfied man is sad even if he is rich."
"Chinese","A single beam cannot support a great house."
"Chinese","A single conversation across the table with a wise man is worth a month's study of books."
"Chinese","A single conversation with a wise man is better than ten years of study."
"Chinese","A single merit cannot make a hundred demerits fade; a hundred merits cannot hide a single demerit."
"Chinese","A single tree cannot make a forest."
"Chinese","A single tree makes no forest; one string makes no music."
"Chinese","A red-nosed man may be a teetotaler, but will find no one to believe it."
"Chinese","A mountain of knives and a sea of fire."
"Chinese","You must climb the mountain if you would see the plain."
"Chinese","A man's conversation is the mirror of his thoughts."
"Chinese","A man's discontent is his worst evil."
"Chinese","A man's faults all conform to his type of mind. Observe his faults and you may know his virtues."
"Chinese","A man's fortune must first be changed from within."
"Chinese","A man's greed is like a snake that wants to swallow an elephant."
"Chinese","A man's heart is indiscernible behind his chest."
"Chinese","A mans greatest shortcoming is that he neglects his own field and weeds that of others."
"Chinese","A mantis stalking a cicada is unaware of an oriole behind."
"Chinese","A melon forced off its vine is not sweet."
"Chinese","A person moves up while water runs down."
"Chinese","A moment of patience can prevent a great disaster and a moment of impatience can ruin a whole life."
"Chinese","A person cannot be judged by his appearance in the same token as the sea cannot be measured with a bucket."
"Chinese","A mouse's vision is an inch long."
"Chinese","A mouse-catching dog steps on the cats' paws."
"Chinese","A nation's treasure is in its scholars."
"Chinese","A nation's treasure: scholars."
"Chinese","A nation's treasure: scholars."
"Chinese","A needle is sharp only at one end."
"Chinese","A one hundred yard high tower still has its foundation on the ground."
"Chinese","A one joy scatter a hundred grieves."
"Chinese","A one-inch error at the start can be a thousand miles at the end."
"Chinese","Patience and the mulberry leaf become a silk robe."
"Chinese","A minimal error at the start leads to a wide divergence in the distance."
"Chinese","The court official in one life has seven rebirths as a beggar."
"Chinese","The emperor is rich, but he cannot buy one extra year."
"Chinese","The brave person regards dying as just going home."
"Chinese","The broad-minded see the truth in different religions; the narrow-minded see only the differences."
"Chinese","The butterfly becomes only when it's entirely ready."
"Chinese","The careful foot can walk anywhere."
"Chinese","The cat got an order and delegated it to her tail."
"Chinese","The company of the wicked is like living in a fish market; one becomes used to the foul odor."
"Chinese","The conquerors are kings; the defeated are bandits."
"Chinese","The contented person can never be ruined."
"Chinese","The conversation of the wise concerns ideas; that of the intelligent is about ideas; the common folk talk about food."
"Chinese","The best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago. The second best time is today."
"Chinese","The country where flowers are expensive lacks the foundation of culture."
"Chinese","The best soldiers are not warlike."
"Chinese","The day your horse dies and your money's gone, your relatives change into strangers."
"Chinese","The delicacy of the feast is the learned guest."
"Chinese","The devil can quote Scripture for his own ends."
"Chinese","The diamond cannot be polished without friction, nor the man perfected without trials."
"Chinese","The dog that has bitten bites again."
"Chinese","The door to virtue is heavy and hard to open."
"Chinese","The doorway to charity is difficult to open and difficult to close."
"Chinese","The dragon has nine sons, each different from the others."
"Chinese","The dragon teaches you that if you want to climb high you have to do it against the wind."
"Chinese","When you drink from the stream remember the spring."
"Chinese","The corn is not choked by the weeds but by the negligence of the farmer."
"Chinese","That which is quickly aquired is easily lost."
"Chinese","A speck on a jade stone won't obscure its radiance."
"Chinese","Teach your descendants the two proper roads - literature and farming."
"Chinese","Teach your son in the front garden and your wife on the pillow."
"Chinese","Teachers open the door but you must walk through it yourself."
"Chinese","Teachers open the door but you must walk through it yourself."
"Chinese","Teachers open the door. You enter by yourself."
"Chinese","Teaching others teacheth yourself."
"Chinese","Tell me and I forget. Show me and I remember. Involve me and I understand."
"Chinese","Tell me and I'll forget; show me and I may remember; involve me and I'll understand."
"Chinese","Tell me, I'll forget. Show me, I may remember. But involve me, and I'll understand."
"Chinese","The black dog gets the food; the white dog gets the blame."
"Chinese","Ten years of oblivion in school may bring you fame overnight."
"Chinese","The emperor is the father of his people, not a master to be served by slaves."
"Chinese","Thatch your roof before rainy weather, dig your well before you become parched with thirst."
"Chinese","The advice of a clever woman can ruin a strong town."
"Chinese","The beginning and the end reach out their hands to each other."
"Chinese","The beginning of wisdom is to call things by their rightful names."
"Chinese","The best cure for drunkenness is to observe a drunken person when you are sober."
"Chinese","The best cure for drunkenness is to observe a drunken person when you are sober."
"Chinese","The best doctor prevents illness, an average doctor visits when the illness is imminent, and the unskilled doctor treats your present illness."
"Chinese","The best doctors are Dr. Diet, Dr, Quiet, and Dr. Merryman."
"Chinese","The best kind of closed door is the one you can leave unlocked."
"Chinese","The best memory is not so firm as faded ink."
"Chinese","Temptation wrings integrity even as the thumbscrew twists a man's fingers."
"Chinese","When you want to test the depths of a stream, don't use both feet."
"Chinese","The earth offers you a grave everywhere."
"Chinese","The great question is not whether you have failed, but whether you are content with failure."
"Chinese","The great scholar forgets about fame, the average scholar works for it, and the unworthy scholar steals it."
"Chinese","The great wall stands; the builder is gone."
"Chinese","The greater your troubles, the greater is your opportunity to show yourself a worthy person."
"Chinese","A smile woth a thousand ounces of gold."
"Chinese","A smile will gain you ten more years of life."
"Chinese","A smile makes you ten years younger."
"Chinese","A small cottage wherein laughter lives is worth more than a castle full of tears."
"Chinese","The gift itself can be light while carrying a heavy message."
"Chinese","After three days without reading, talk becomes flavorless."
"Chinese","The gem of the sky is the sun; the gem of the house is the child."
"Chinese","Be not afraid of growing slowly, be afraid only of standing still."
"Chinese","The best soldiers are not warlike."
"Chinese","Better do a kindness near home than go far to burn incense."
"Chinese","Better to light one candle than to curse the darkness"
"Chinese","When you have only two pennies left in the world, buy a loaf of bread with one, and a lily with the other."
"Chinese","A bit of fragrance always sticks to the hand that gives you roses."
"Chinese","A book is like a garden carried in the pocket."
"Chinese","A closed mind is like a closed book; just a block of wood"
"Chinese","Deviate an inch, lose a thousand miles."
"Chinese","The wise man shapes himself to circumstances as water shapes itself to the vessel that contains it."
"Chinese","The first favor is a favor, the second an obligation."
"Chinese","The enemy of my enemy is my friend."
"Chinese","The error of one moment becomes the sorrow of a whole life."
"Chinese","The evening crowns the days."
"Chinese","The evil is dreaded by men but not heaven; the kind-hearted is cheated by mortals but not God."
"Chinese","The faintest ink is more powerful than the strongest memory."
"Chinese","The fangs of the green snake and the sting of a wasp don't really make poison -- that is only to be found in a woman's heart."
"Chinese","The farmer hopes for rain, the walker hopes for sunshine, and the gods hesitate."
"Chinese","The father in praising his son extols himself."
"Chinese","The father in praising the son extols himself."
"Chinese","The fire you kindle for your enemy often burns yourself more than him."
"Chinese","The gods cannot help those who do not seize opportunities."
"Chinese","The first decision of a woman is the most intelligent and the last decision most dangerous."
"Chinese","The gem cannot be polished without friction, not a man perfected without trials."
"Chinese","The first half of the night, think of your own faults; the second half, the faults of others."
"Chinese","The first hen that cackles is the one that laid the egg."
"Chinese","The first time you cheat me, be ashamed. The second time it is I who must be ashamed."
"Chinese","The fish you cannot catch is always a big one."
"Chinese","The flatterer makes you climb up a tree then takes the ladder away."
"Chinese","The flowers in your garden don't smell as sweet as those in the wild, but they last much longer."
"Chinese","The fly that plays too long in the candle, singes his wings at last."
"Chinese","The fool does what he can't avoid, the wise man avoids what he can't do."
"Chinese","The Foolish Old Man Removes a Mountain."
"Chinese","The first blow is half the battle."
"Chinese","Peace and tranquility are a thousand gold pieces."
"Chinese","Plan your year in the spring, your day at dawn."
"Chinese","Pick your inn before the dark; get on your road before the dawn."
"Chinese","Pick up a sesame seed only to lose a watermelon."
"Chinese","Phoenix feather and unicorn horns."
"Chinese","Perseverance can reduce an iron rod to a sewing needle."
"Chinese","People live like birds in the woods: When the time comes, each must take flight."
"Chinese","People fool themselves. They pray for a long life but fear old age."
"Chinese","People die voluntarily when it becomes impossible to live."
"Chinese","People can no more be judged by their looks than the sea can be measured in bushels."
"Chinese","Pain is easier to endure than an itch."
"Chinese","Peace and tranquillity are a thousand gold pieces."
"Chinese","Pleasures are shallow, sorrows deep."
"Chinese","Patience is power; with time and patience the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown."
"Chinese","Patience is a virtue."
"Chinese","Patience is a plaister for all sores."
"Chinese","Patience is a bitter plant, but it has sweet fruit."
"Chinese","Patience in the household is a real treasure."
"Chinese","Patience and the mulberry leaf become a silk robe."
"Chinese","Pass oneself off as one of the Yu pipe players in an ensemble."
"Chinese","Pass off a fish eye for a pearl."
"Chinese","Parents who are afraid to put their foot down usually have children who step on their toes."
"Chinese","Raise your sail one foot and you get ten feet of wind."
"Chinese","People can be done without but a lot of us need a friend."
"Chinese","Prescribe the right medicine for a symptom."
"Chinese","Keep a green tree in your heart and perhaps the singing bird will come."
"Chinese","Quiet rivers have flowery banks."
"Chinese","Putting out a fire while holding firewood."
"Chinese","Put one person's hat on another's head."
"Chinese","Pure gold does not fear the smelter."
"Chinese","Pure gold does not fear furnace."
"Chinese","Pull a strand of silk from a tangled mass."
"Chinese","Public before private and country before family."
"Chinese","Procrastination is the thief of time."
"Chinese","Priests return to the temple, merchants to the shop."
"Chinese","Plant the crab-tree where you will it will never bear pippins."
"Chinese","Present Buddha with borrowed flowers."
"Chinese","Pleasure for one hour, a bottle of wine. Pleasure for one year a marriage; but pleasure for a lifetime, a garden."
"Chinese","Praise the sea, but keep on land."
"Chinese","Practice no vice because it's trivial; neglect no virtue because it's so."
"Chinese","Poverty and ugliness are difficult to hide."
"Chinese","Pouring water from above the roof of a tall building."
"Chinese","Pouring oil on the fire is not the way to quench it."
"Chinese","Politics makes strange bedfellows."
"Chinese","Politeness wins the confidence of princes."
"Chinese","Point at the mulberry and abuse the pagoda tree."
"Chinese","Pluck flowers as they bloom; wait and you'll have only the twigs."
"Chinese","Over a distance of a thousand miles only humanity works, not power."
"Chinese","Present to the eye, present to the mind."
"Chinese","One moment of patience may ward off a great disaster; one moment of impatience may ruin a whole life."
"Chinese","One step in the wrong direction will cause you a thousand years of regret."
"Chinese","One step at a time is good walking."
"Chinese","One sings, all follow."
"Chinese","One should be just as careful in choosing one's pleasures as in avoiding calamities."
"Chinese","One palm makes no applause."
"Chinese","One never needs their humor as much as when they argue with a fool."
"Chinese","One never comes to pray in the Temple of Three Treasures if he is not in trouble."
"Chinese","One never accuses without a little bit of lying."
"Chinese","One more good man on earth is better than an extra angel in heaven."
"Chinese","Paper can't wrap up a fire."
"Chinese","One moment's error becomes a lifetime of sadness."
"Chinese","One who is fit to sit facing the south."
"Chinese","One measures the towers by their shadows and great people by those who envy them."
"Chinese","One man tells a lie, dozens repeat it as the truth."
"Chinese","One justice can overpower a hundred evils."
"Chinese","One joy shatters a hundred griefs."
"Chinese","One joy scatters a hundred grieves."
"Chinese","One joy scatters a hundred grieves."
"Chinese","One happiness scatters a thousand sorrows."
"Chinese","One guest does not trouble two hosts."
"Chinese","One generation plants the trees, another gets the shade."
"Chinese","One generation builds the street on which the next will walk."
"Chinese","One monk shoulders water by himself; two can still share the labor between them. When it comes to three, they have to go thirsty."
"Chinese","Only fools seek credit from the achievements of their ancestors."
"Chinese","Outside noisy, inside empty."
"Chinese","Out of a dog's mouth will never come ivory tusks."
"Chinese","Our wishes are like little children -- the more you indulge the more they want from you."
"Chinese","Our needs are few but our wants increase with our possessions."
"Chinese","Our enemies teach us life's most valuable lesson."
"Chinese","Opinions are like nails: the more often you hit them the deeper they penetrate."
"Chinese","Only your shadow knows your true height."
"Chinese","Only when all contribute their firewood can they build up a strong fire."
"Chinese","Only through the eyes of others can we really see our own faults."
"Chinese","Only the man who crosses the river at night knows the value of the light of day."
"Chinese","One thing well done is a hundred done; one thing that fails dooms the rest."
"Chinese","Only he that has traveled the road knows where the holes are deep."
"Chinese","One who asks a question is a fool for five minutes; one who does not ask a question remains a fool forever."
"Chinese","Ones who are unable to live under the same sky."
"Chinese","One's true nature is revealed in time of difficulty."
"Chinese","One's son is clever while the neighbor is suspicious."
"Chinese","One's skills are his inexhaustible treasure keeping him from hunger wherever he goes."
"Chinese","One's shadow grows larger than life when admired by the light of the moon."
"Chinese","One's own meat dishes are not as delicious as other's vegetarian ones."
"Chinese","One who would pick the roses must bear with the thorns."
"Chinese","One who walks along a river frequently cannot avoid getting his shoes wet."
"Chinese","One who knows the limit knows true happiness."
"Chinese","Rare commodities are worth more than good."
"Chinese","Only one who can swallow an insult is a man."
"Chinese","Smash the pots and sink the boats."
"Chinese","Sometimes you lose a forest through the trees."
"Chinese","Sometimes life can be as bitter as dragon tears. But whether dragon tears are bitter or sweat depends entirely on how each man perceives them."
"Chinese","Some roads aren't meant to be travelled alone."
"Chinese","Some prefer carrots while others like cabbage."
"Chinese","Some prefer carrot while others like cabbage."
"Chinese","Some people want to be praised for the rest of their lives for what they have done well for one day."
"Chinese","Solve one problem, and you keep a hundred others away."
"Chinese","Solitude is enjoyed only when one is at peace with oneself."
"Chinese","So lovers, to their fair one fondly blind, E'en on her ugliness with transport gaze."
"Chinese","Silly toad: planning a meal of goose."
"Chinese","So long as a man is angry he cannot be in the right."
"Chinese","Sour, sweet, bitter, pungent, all must be tasted."
"Chinese","Small men think they are small; great men never know they are great."
"Chinese","Small is beautiful."
"Chinese","Small ills are the fountains of most of our groans. Men trip not on mountains, they stumble on stones."
"Chinese","Sma' winnings mak a heavy purse."
"Chinese","Slow in word, swift in deed."
"Chinese","Sleep is the brother of Death."
"Chinese","Slander piles itself before the door of a widow."
"Chinese","Slander cannot destroy an honest man: when the flood recedes the rock is there."
"Chinese","Sit atop the mountain and watch the tigers fight."
"Chinese","Rage is not without reason."
"Chinese","So long as the green mountains are preserved, there will be no shortage of firewood supply."
"Chinese","Success in the end erases all the mistakes along the way."
"Chinese","The poor can only guess at what wealth is; the rich don't know what poverty means."
"Chinese","The pleasure of doing good is the only one that will not wear out."
"Chinese","The pitcher doth not go so often to the well, but it comes home broken at last."
"Chinese","Talking without thinking is shooting without aiming."
"Chinese","Talking doesn't get your rice cooked."
"Chinese","Talk doesn't cook rice."
"Chinese","Talk does not cook rice."
"Chinese","Take a second look; it costs you nothing."
"Chinese","Take a second look. It costs you nothing."
"Chinese","Swiftest horse cannot overtake the word once spoken."
"Chinese","Sooner or later the day comes when the tumor can be lanced."
"Chinese","Survive the Jaw of a Tiger."
"Chinese","Sorrow is the child of too much joy."
"Chinese","Study without reflection is a waste of time; reflection without study is dangerous."
"Chinese","Strong souls have willpower, weak ones only desires."
"Chinese","Stir the grass and alert the snake."
"Chinese","Steer one's boat where the winds lead."
"Chinese","Steal beams and replace them with poles."
"Chinese","Steal a bell with one's ears covered."
"Chinese","Spring is sooner recognized by plants than by men."
"Chinese","Spouses that love each other say a thousand things without speaking."
"Chinese","Sow much, reap much; sow little, reap little."
"Chinese","Silence condemns more effectively than loud accusations."
"Chinese","Swallow a date with its stone."
"Chinese","Reshape one's feet to fit into new shoes."
"Chinese","Riches: a dream in the night. Fame: a gull floating on water."
"Chinese","Riches: A dream in the night. Fame: A gull floating on water."
"Chinese","Riches add to the house, virtues to the man."
"Chinese","Rich not gaudy."
"Chinese","Rich men accumulate money; the poor accumulate years."
"Chinese","Reticence builds a fortress in the mind."
"Chinese","Respect spiritual beings but keep your distance."
"Chinese","Respect out of fear is never genuine; reverence out of respect is never false."
"Chinese","Respect for ones parents is the highest duty of civil life."
"Chinese","Silly toad: planning a meal of goose."
"Chinese","Reshape one's foot to try to fit into a new shoe."
"Chinese","Riddance of evil must be thorough."
"Chinese","Repentance is the spring beneath our virtues."
"Chinese","Remove firewood from under a pot."
"Chinese","Remember to dig the well long before you get thirsty."
"Chinese","Rein in the horse at the edge of the cliff."
"Chinese","Regular feet can't be affected by irregular shoes."
"Chinese","Reform a gambler . . . cure leprosy."
"Chinese","Real gold is not afraid of the melting pot."
"Chinese","Read critically, and you will find each word worth a thousand ounces of gold."
"Chinese","Rats know the way of rats."
"Chinese","Rather once cry your heart out than always sigh."
"Chinese","Respect for one's parents is the highest duty of civil life."
"Chinese","Scholars talk books, butchers talk pigs."
"Chinese","Shoot at someone's shadow with sand."
"Chinese","Shed no tears until seeing the coffin."
"Chinese","Shame is forgotten, debts are not."
"Chinese","Shadows are formed all along the wishes of the sun."
"Chinese","Settling a dispute through the law is like losing a cow for the sake of a cat."
"Chinese","Sending charcoal in the snow is better than adding flowers to a brocade."
"Chinese","Send charcoal in a snow storm."
"Chinese","Seeking fish? Don't dive in the pond; go home and get a net."
"Chinese","Seek fish on a tree."
"Chinese","Seeing once is better than hearing a hundred times."
"Chinese","Riches: a dream in the night. Fame: a gull floating on water."
"Chinese","Schoolmaster, stick to your books; farmer, to your pigs."
"Chinese","Riches: a dream in the night; fame: a gull floating on water."
"Chinese","Scholars are invaluable to a nation as the best course to a banquet."
"Chinese","Ruthlessness is key to a man's accomplishment."
"Chinese","Runaway son, a shining jewel; runaway daughter, tarnished."
"Chinese","Rule the roost."
"Chinese","Rotten wood cannot be carved."
"Chinese","Road is made by people walking on the ground."
"Chinese","Rivers and mountains may change; human nature, never."
"Chinese","Rivalry between scholars improves science."
"Chinese","Ripe fruit falls by itself, but it does not fall into your mouth."
"Chinese","One false step brings everlasting grief. Short please, long lament."
"Chinese","Scratching an itch from outside the boot."
"Chinese","Love and attention make all things grow."
"Chinese","Lure a tiger out of its mountain."
"Chinese","Love your neighbors, but do not pull down the fence."
"Chinese","Love my house, love the crow on it."
"Chinese","Love me, love my dog."
"Chinese","Love itself is calm; turbulence arrives from individuals."
"Chinese","Love is incompatible with fear."
"Chinese","Love is blind, friendship closes its eyes."
"Chinese","Love is blind, and greed insatiable."
"Chinese","Love is an eye that doesn't see anything."
"Chinese","Long or short, a stick is always a stick; tall or short, people are always people."
"Chinese","Love for a person must extend to the crows on his roof."
"Chinese","Make sure you leave some fat for the other side."
"Chinese","Losing comes of winning money."
"Chinese","Lord Ye's professed love of dragons turned into his worst fear."
"Chinese","Looking for the ass on its very back."
"Chinese","Looking for fish? Don't climb a tree."
"Chinese","Looking for a donkey on its very back."
"Chinese","Look to your enemy for a chance to succeed."
"Chinese","Look not at thieves eating meat, but look at them suffering punishment."
"Chinese","Look for a thing until you find it and you'll not lose your labor."
"Chinese","Look at a leopard through a pipe."
"Chinese","One foot cannot stand on two boats."
"Chinese","Love has its tides; before ebb tide you must take advantage of the flood."
"Chinese","Man proposes, God disposes."
"Chinese","Married couples who love each other tell each other a thousand things without talking."
"Chinese","Married couples tell each other a thousand things without speech."
"Chinese","Marking the Boat to Seek One's Sword."
"Chinese","Many books do not use up words; many words do not use up thoughts."
"Chinese","Many a little make a mickle."
"Chinese","Many a good face is under a ragged hat."
"Chinese","Manners maketh man."
"Chinese","Mankind scorns a virtuous man, but heaven does not."
"Chinese","Mankind fears an evil man but heaven does not."
"Chinese","Man's heart is never satisfied; the snake would swallow the elephant."
"Chinese","Make friends with what is good in a man and not his goods."
"Chinese","Man who waits for roast duck to fly into mouth must wait very, very long time."
"Chinese","Make happy those who are near, and those who are far will come."
"Chinese","Man must be sharpened on man, like knife on stone."
"Chinese","Man is the head of the family, woman the neck that turns the head."
"Chinese","Man is heaven and earth in miniature."
"Chinese","Man has a thousand plans, heaven but one."
"Chinese","Man fools himself. He prays for a long life, and he fears an old age."
"Chinese","Man concocts a million schemes; god knows but one."
"Chinese","Man cannot stir one inch without the push of heaven's finger."
"Chinese","Mallet strikes chisel; chisel splits wood."
"Chinese","Making a thousand decisions, even the wise will make a mistake."
"Chinese","Locks can not be made from good iron, soldiers are not made out of good people."
"Chinese","Man's eyelids are transparent."
"Chinese","Kindle not a fire you cannot put out."
"Chinese","Learning how the Handan residents walk."
"Chinese","Learn to paint a tiger and you only paint his skin; learn to know a human being and you only know his face."
"Chinese","Learn to handle a writing-brush and you'll never handle a begging-bowl."
"Chinese","Lazy people always want to do everything at the same time."
"Chinese","Laws control the lesser man; right conduct controls the greater one."
"Chinese","Laws control the lesser man... Right conduct controls the greater one."
"Chinese","Laws are useless when men are pure, unenforceable when men are corrupt."
"Chinese","Last night I made a thousand plans, but this morning I went my old way."
"Chinese","Large demands on oneself and little demands on others keep resentment at bay."
"Chinese","Long roads test the horse, long dealings the friend."
"Chinese","Know thyself to know others, for heart beats like heart."
"Chinese","Learning is better than house and land."
"Chinese","Killing the dog does not heal the bite."
"Chinese","Killing a man to save the world, does not save the world."
"Chinese","Killing a bad monarch is not to be considered murder but justice."
"Chinese","Kill two vultures with one arrow."
"Chinese","Kill the chicken to frighten the monkey."
"Chinese","Kill one to warn a hundred."
"Chinese","Kill a hen to get the egg."
"Chinese","Kill a chicken before a monkey."
"Chinese","Keep your chin up."
"Chinese","Keep your broken arm inside your sleeve."
"Chinese","Knowledge that is not replenished diminishes every day."
"Chinese","Life is partly what we make it, and partly what it is made by the friends whom we choose."
"Chinese","Living at a river, one comes to know the nature of the fish therein; Dwelling by a mountain, one learns to recognize the language of the birds thereupon."
"Chinese","Listening well is as powerful as talking well, and is also as essential to true conversation."
"Chinese","Listen to all, plucking a feather from every passing goose, but, follow no one absolutely."
"Chinese","Listen to all, pluck a feather from every passing goose, but follow no one absolutely."
"Chinese","Like neither a donkey nor a horse."
"Chinese","Like bamboo shoots after rain."
"Chinese","Like ants gnawing at a bone."
"Chinese","Light is good from whatever lamp it shines."
"Chinese","Lift a stone only to drop on your own feet."
"Chinese","Life unfolds on a sheet called time and once finished is gone forever."
"Chinese","Learning is a treasure that will follow its owner everywhere."
"Chinese","Life isn't all beer and skittles."
"Chinese","Learning is a treasure which accompanies its owner everywhere."
"Chinese","Life is like a candle in the wind; like frost on the roof; like the wriggling of the fish in the pan."
"Chinese","Life is a dream walking, death is going home."
"Chinese","Life can never give security, it can only promise opportunity."
"Chinese","Let him who does not know what war is go to war."
"Chinese","Lend money to someone who won't pay you back and he'll hate you."
"Chinese","Leave a bit of the tail to whisk off flies."
"Chinese","Learning is weightless, treasure you can always carry easily."
"Chinese","Learning is treasure no thief can touch."
"Chinese","Learning is like rowing upstream: not to advance is to drop back."
"Chinese","Measure your throat before you swallow a bone."
"Chinese","Life itself cannot give you joy/ Unless you really will it./ Life just gives you time and space -- It's up to you to fill it."
"Chinese","Not until just before dawn do people sleep best; not until people get old do they become wise."
"Chinese","Of all the stratagems, to know when to quit is the best."
"Chinese","Of all the female qualities a warm heart is the most valuable."
"Chinese","Of all meat in the world drink goes down the best."
"Chinese","Of a small spark, a great fire."
"Chinese","Of a good beginning cometh a good end."
"Chinese","Of a dead leopard we keep the skin, of man his reputation."
"Chinese","Occupy the higher ground to exercise control."
"Chinese","O man, you who do not live a hundred years, why fret a thousand minutes?"
"Chinese","O eggs, never fight with stones."
"Chinese","Matrimony is the grave of romance."
"Chinese","Not wine . . . men intoxicate themselves; not vice . . . men entice themselves."
"Chinese","Often one finds one's destiny just where one hides to avoid it."
"Chinese","Not the fastest horse can catch a word spoken in anger."
"Chinese","Not the cry, but the flight of the wild duck, leads the flock to fly and follow."
"Chinese","Not only those who can talk the best tell you the most interesting things."
"Chinese","Nobody's family can hang up the sign, 'nothing the matter here.'"
"Chinese","Nobody's family can hang out the sign, ""Nothing the matter here."
"Chinese","Nobility is what is earned by those who have no other earnings."
"Chinese","No wise man takes responsibility for an eighteen-year-old daughter."
"Chinese","No wisdom to silence."
"Chinese","No wisdom like silence."
"Chinese","No wind, no waves."
"Chinese","Notoriety travels farther away."
"Chinese","One beam, no matter how big, cannot support an entire house on its own."
"Chinese","The powerful are never faithful."
"Chinese","One failure leads to another; so does success."
"Chinese","One dog snarls at a shadow; a hundred howl at each other's barking."
"Chinese","One dog barks at something specific, and a hundred bark at the sound."
"Chinese","One day as a tiger is worth a thousand as a sheep."
"Chinese","One courts misfortune by flaunting wealth."
"Chinese","One cannot refuse to eat just because there is a chance of being choked."
"Chinese","One cannot manage too many affairs; like pumpkins in water, one pops up while you try to hold down the other."
"Chinese","One can forgive a murder but not impoliteness."
"Chinese","One can care little for man, but we need a friend."
"Chinese","Of all the thirty-six alternatives, running away is the best."
"Chinese","One bee makes no honey; one grain makes no rice soup."
"Chinese","Often one finds destiny just where one hides to avoid it."
"Chinese","One bamboo does not make a forest."
"Chinese","Once you pour the water out of the bucket it's hard to get it back in it."
"Chinese","Once on a tiger's back, it is hard to alight."
"Chinese","Once bitten by an adder, you will never walk through the high grass again."
"Chinese","Once bitten by a snake, one is scared all his life at the mere sight of a rope."
"Chinese","Once bitten by a snake, he is scared all his life at the mere sight of a rope."
"Chinese","Once a tree falls, the monkeys on it will scatter."
"Chinese","On the same boat in a tempest."
"Chinese","On entering a country, ask what is forbidden, on entering a village, ask what are the customs, on entering a private house, ask what should not be mentioned."
"Chinese","No needle is sharp at both ends."
"Chinese","One body cannot perform two services."
"Chinese","Misfortune comes to all men."
"Chinese","No one is more afraid of ghosts than those that don't believe in them."
"Chinese","Never argue with a man who buys ink by the barrel."
"Chinese","Never answer a letter while you are angry."
"Chinese","Nature, time and patience are the three great physicians."
"Chinese","Nature is better than a middling doctor."
"Chinese","Much law, little justice."
"Chinese","Monkeys must disperse once their tree falls."
"Chinese","Money can buy a lot that is not even for sale."
"Chinese","Mockery is the flashing of slander."
"Chinese","Mistaking the reflection of a bow in a cup for a snake."
"Chinese","Never boast -- you might meet someone who knew you as a child."
"Chinese","Misfortune conquers timid souls while great minds subdue misfortune."
"Chinese","Never do anything standing that you can do sitting, or anything sitting that you can do lying down."
"Chinese","Mischief has swift wings."
"Chinese","Merit and glory never adorn a nightcap."
"Chinese","Mend the pen only after the sheep are all gone."
"Chinese","Men see only the present; heaven sees the future."
"Chinese","Men know not all their faults, oxen all their strength."
"Chinese","Men in the game are blind to what men looking on see clearly."
"Chinese","Men grow old, pearls grow yellow, there is no cure for it."
"Chinese","Men fated to be happy need not haste."
"Chinese","Medicine can only cure curable diseases, and then not always."
"Chinese","One family builds the wall, two families enjoy it."
"Chinese","Misfortune is not that which can be avoided, but that which cannot."
"Chinese","No matter how big, one beam cannot support a house."
"Chinese","May it always be spring with you."
"Chinese","No mill, no meal."
"Chinese","No melon-peddler cries: Bitter melons. No wine-dealer says: Sour wine."
"Chinese","No melon peddler cries, ""Bitter melons."" No wine dealer says, ""Sour wine."""
"Chinese","No medicines can cure the vulgar man."
"Chinese","No matter how worthless a man may be, kill him and see how much he costs you."
"Chinese","No matter how the wind howls, the mountain will not bow to it."
"Chinese","No matter how tall the tree is, its leaves will always fall to the ground."
"Chinese","No matter how tall the mountain is, it cannot block the sun. Tenacity and adversity are old foes."
"Chinese","No matter how tall the mountain is, it cannot block the sun. Tenacity and adversity are old foes."
"Chinese","Never be boastful; someone may come along who knew you as a child."
"Chinese","No matter how much the wise man travels, he always lives in the same place."
"Chinese","No one has an exclusive on opportunity. When the sun rises, it rises for everyone."
"Chinese","No matter how big the sea may be, sometimes two ships meet."
"Chinese","No man is a hero to his woman."
"Chinese","No iron is so strong that it cannot be melted down, and no business so dirty that can be fixed with money."
"Chinese","No banquet in the world that never ends."
"Chinese","Never write a letter while you are angry."
"Chinese","Never try to catch two frogs with one hand."
"Chinese","Never has a man more need of his intelligence than when a fool asks him a question."
"Chinese","Never eat in a restaurant where the chef is thin."
"Chinese","Never does a woman lie in a more cunning way than when she tells the truth to someone who doesn't believe her."
"Chinese","Never do anything that you want to remain a secret."
"Chinese","No matter how stout one beam, it cannot support a house."
"Chinese","When planning for a year, plant corn. When planning for a decade, plant trees. When planning for life, train and educate people."
"Chinese","When the tree dies, the grass underneath withers."
"Chinese","When the moon is shining the cripple becomes hungry for a walk."
"Chinese","When the mantis hunts the locust, he forgets the shrike that's hunting him."
"Chinese","When the lamps in the house are lit it is like the flowering of lotus on the lake."
"Chinese","When the itch is inside the boot, scratching outside provides little consolation."
"Chinese","When the heart is at ease, the body is healthy."
"Chinese","When the head rope of a net is pulled up, all the meshes open."
"Chinese","When the deal is done, discuss it no more; it is difficult to collect dispersed water."
"Chinese","When the cat is gone, the mice come out to stretch."
"Chinese","When eating bamboo sprouts, remember the man who planted them."
"Chinese","When someone gives you a drop of water reward him with a never ending source."
"Chinese","When there are no great tigers in the deep mountains, even a monkey can become king."
"Chinese","When people only talk about things they understand then a great silence will descend upon the world."
"Chinese","When people are no longer afraid of death, there is no use threatening them with it?"
"Chinese","When money is stolen you can only beat the dog."
"Chinese","When men speak of the future, the gods laugh."
"Chinese","When men discuss the things which are to be, the rats laugh in the rafters."
"Chinese","When men are friendly the water is sweet."
"Chinese","When joy is extreme, it is the forerunner of grief."
"Chinese","When good fortune finally comes, no one can ever stop it."
"Chinese","When going to an eating house, go to one that is filled with customers."
"Chinese","Waiting for a rabbit to hit upon a tree and be killed in order to catch it."
"Chinese","When the boat reaches mid-stream, it is too late to stop the leak."
"Chinese","When you bow, bow low."
"Chinese","When your horse in on the brink of a precipice, it is too late to pull the reins."
"Chinese","When you want to test the depths of a stream, don't use both feet."
"Chinese","When you say one thing, the clever person understands three."
"Chinese","When you lift your hand to strike, you are three-tenths lower than your opponent."
"Chinese","When you have read a book for the first time, you get to know a friend; read it for a second time and you meet an old friend."
"Chinese","When you have only two pennies left in the world, buy a loaf of bread with one, and a lily with the other."
"Chinese","When you have only two dollars left in the world, buy a loaf of bread with one, and a rose with the other."
"Chinese","When you fall into a pit, you either die or get out."
"Chinese","When you fall into a pit, either you get out or die."
"Chinese","When you drink water, remember where the mountain spring is."
"Chinese","When the tree falls, the shadow flies."
"Chinese","When you cease to strive to understand, then you will know without understanding."
"Chinese","When the tree waves, wind is stirring."
"Chinese","When you are very angry, don't go to a lawyer; when you are very hungry, don't be a poet."
"Chinese","When you are poor, you will have no visitors even if you live in a crowded city; once you become rich, you'll be surprised by visitors from alleged relatives even if you live in a remote location."
"Chinese","When you are in a hurry, the horse holds back."
"Chinese","When with dwarfs, do not talk about pygmies."
"Chinese","When we have nothing to worry about we are not doing much, and not doing much may supply us with plenty of future worries."
"Chinese","When traveling do not calculate the distance, at dinner don't think of how much."
"Chinese","When there is trust, no proof is necessary. when there is none, no proof is possible."
"Chinese","When there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world."
"Chinese","When there are two in a lawsuit only a third will profit from it."
"Chinese","When buying a house, check the beams; when choosing a wife; check the mother."
"Chinese","When you drink from the stream remember the spring."
"Chinese","Water spilled can never be retrieved."
"Chinese","Wealth is but dung, useful only when spread about."
"Chinese","Wealth and obscurity cannot equal poverty and fame."
"Chinese","Weaklings never forgive their enemies."
"Chinese","We know the worth of water when the well is dry."
"Chinese","We forget even incense in easy times; come hard times, we embrace the Buddha's feet."
"Chinese","We can study until old age and still not finish."
"Chinese","We can move the entire mountain one piece at a time."
"Chinese","We are not so much concerned if you are slow as when you come to a halt."
"Chinese","We all like lamb; each has a different way of cooking it."
"Chinese","When fate throws a dagger at you, there are only two ways to catch it: by the blade or by the handle."
"Chinese","Water that has reached its level does not flow."
"Chinese","Well water is not an enemy of spring water."
"Chinese","Water from far away is no good for a fire close by."
"Chinese","Water does not stick to the mountain, and vengeance does not stick to a big heart."
"Chinese","Water can do without fishes, fishes cannot do without water."
"Chinese","Water and words are easy to pour but impossible to recover."
"Chinese","Watch the fire burn on the other side of the river."
"Chinese","War is Death's feast."
"Chinese","Want a thing long enough, and you don't."
"Chinese","Walls have ears."
"Chinese","Walk sidewise and block the way."
"Chinese","The poor ones give their alms in a humble way, the rich man throws them down with contempt."
"Chinese","Water thrown out is hard to put back into the container."
"Chinese","What the eye sees not, the heart craves not."
"Chinese","When a woman talks to you, smile but do not listen."
"Chinese","When a man is crazy about a woman only she can cure him."
"Chinese","When a leopard dies, he leaves his coat. when a man dies, he leaves his name."
"Chinese","When a large vessel has opened a way it is easy for a small one to follow."
"Chinese","When a king makes a mistake, all the people suffer."
"Chinese","When a finger points at the moon, the imbecile looks at the finger."
"Chinese","When a finger is pointing at the moon, the fool looks at the finger."
"Chinese","When a centipede dies on the wall it does not fall down."
"Chinese","Wheat stalks heavy with grain learn how to bow their heads."
"Chinese","Whatever will satisfy hunger is good food."
"Chinese","Weaving a net is better than praying for fish at the edge of the water."
"Chinese","What the superior man seeks in himself, the small man seeks in others."
"Chinese","Wedlock is a padlock."
"Chinese","What is whispered in your ear is often heard a hundred miles off."
"Chinese","What is told into the ear of a man is often heard a hundred miles away."
"Chinese","What is told into a man's ear is often heard a hundred miles away."
"Chinese","What is told in the ear of a man is often heard a hundred miles away."
"Chinese","What is not urgent must be done quickly in order to take care of the urgent things calmly."
"Chinese","What is lighter than a feather? The wind. Lighter than the wind? The spirit. Lighter than the spirit? The woman. Lighter than the woman? Nothing at all."
"Chinese","What is fated to be yours will always return to you."
"Chinese","What first appears as a calamity may later bring good fortune."
"Chinese","What appears beautiful is not always good for you."
"Chinese","Whenever the water rises, the boat will rise too."
"Chinese","What you can not avoid, welcome."
"Chinese","You can't buy an inch of time with an inch of gold."
"Chinese","You cannot fight a fire with water from far away."
"Chinese","You cannot draw white cloth from a dying vat."
"Chinese","You cannot cook two meals in the same pot."
"Chinese","You can't tell the cost of food and fuel without being the head of a household; you can't appreciate the love of your parents without having children of your own."
"Chinese","You can't look at the stars while you are walking if you have a stone in your shoe."
"Chinese","You can't load a small boat with heavy cargo."
"Chinese","You can't fill your belly painting pictures of bread."
"Chinese","You can't fare well, but you must cry roast meat."
"Chinese","You can't expect both ends of a sugar cane to be as sweet."
"Chinese","When your horse is on the brink of a precipice it is too late to pull the reins."
"Chinese","You can't catch a cub without going into the tiger's den."
"Chinese","You cannot pick up salt with dry fingers."
"Chinese","You can't be the head of a family unless you show yourself both stupid and deaf."
"Chinese","You can never be happy at the expense of the happiness of others."
"Chinese","You can mirror something from other people; you can only give out that which is your own."
"Chinese","You can live with tea and cold rice but not with cold words."
"Chinese","You can lean on a bamboo stick, but not on a rope."
"Chinese","You can hardly make a friend in a year, but you can easily offend one in an hour."
"Chinese","You can chop a man's head off, but you can't keep him quiet."
"Chinese","You can be cautious of the future, but not of the past."
"Chinese","You can be cautious about the future but not the past."
"Chinese","You can accompany a friend for a thousand miles but at some time you must take your leave."
"Chinese","You can't clap with one hand only."
"Chinese","You never are so easily mistaken as when you think you know the way."
"Chinese","A teacher is someone who ploughs with his tongue to fill his little bowl with rice."
"Chinese","Your friend has a friend; don't tell him."
"Chinese","Your fingers can't be of the same length."
"Chinese","Your best mirror is someone more beautiful than you."
"Chinese","You won't help the new plants grow by pulling them up higher."
"Chinese","You won't help shoots grow by pulling them up higher."
"Chinese","You won't get much fat from a dry bone."
"Chinese","You will never lose a battle if you know your own situation as well as that of the enemy."
"Chinese","You will never be punished for making people die of laughter."
"Chinese","You want no one to know it? Then don't do it."
"Chinese","You cannot hook trout? Try digging clams."
"Chinese","You think you lost your horse? Who knows, he may bring a whole herd back to you someday."
"Chinese","You cannot lose what you never had."
"Chinese","You need your wits about you the most when you are dealing with an idiot."
"Chinese","You must scale the mountains if you would view the plain."
"Chinese","You must scale the mountain if you want to view the plain."
"Chinese","You must have crossed the river before you may tell the crocodile he has bad breath."
"Chinese","You must climb the mountain if you would see the plain."
"Chinese","You looked high and low till your iron shoes were worn out but still to no avail. Then you chanced upon it without ever looking."
"Chinese","You don't need a dog to catch a lame hare."
"Chinese","You cannot propel yourself forward by patting yourself on the back."
"Chinese","You cannot prevent the birds of sorrow from flying over your head, but you can prevent them from building nests in your hair."
"Chinese","You always win by not saying the things you don't have to say."
"Chinese","You think you've lost your horse? Who knows, he may bring a whole herd back to you someday."
"Chinese","Who is inferior and is ashamed of it proves that he really is inferior."
"Chinese","You buy land, you buy stones; you buy meat, you buy bones."
"Chinese","Win a cat and lose a cow -- the consequence of litigation."
"Chinese","Why jump in the water before the ship turns over."
"Chinese","Whoever tears his clothes must mend them himself."
"Chinese","Whoever tastes from the head of a poppy will not expect any thing from love."
"Chinese","Whoever keeps his door locked all the time longs for it to be broken down."
"Chinese","Whoever buys a house must examine the beams; whoever wants a wife must look at her mother."
"Chinese","Who tells me of my faults is my teacher; who tells me of my virtues does me harm."
"Chinese","Who teaches me for a day is my father for a lifetime."
"Chinese","Who rides a tiger cannot dismount."
"Chinese","Wine does not intoxicate a man -- a man intoxicates himself."
"Chinese","Who is narrow minded cannot be bighearted."
"Chinese","Winning an argument does not mean one has convinced one's opponent."
"Chinese","Who has children cannot long remain poor; who has none cannot long remain rich."
"Chinese","Who arrives in the darkness departs as night falls."
"Chinese","While wrangling over a quarter of pig, you can lose a flock of sheep."
"Chinese","While keeping a tiger from the front door, the wolf comes in at the back."
"Chinese","Which cat does not gorge a mouse?"
"Chinese","Whether we walk quickly or slowly, the road remains the same."
"Chinese","Where there's a will to condemn there is also evidence."
"Chinese","Where a chest lieth open, a righteous man may sin."
"Chinese","Whenever there is profit to be made then think of honesty."
"Chinese","Wait long, strike fast."
"Chinese","Who is not satisfied with himself will grow; who is not sure of his own correctness will learn many things."
"Chinese","Without rice, even the cleverest housewife cannot cook."
"Chinese","When your neighbor walks through your orchard, the polite thing to do is to ignore it."
"Chinese","Yesterday, today and tomorrow -- these are the three days of man."
"Chinese","Yellow gold is plentiful compared to white-haired friends."
"Chinese","Would rather be betrayed by others than betraying them."
"Chinese","Would rather be a chicken's head than a phoenix's tail."
"Chinese","Words that come from the heart stay warm three winters long."
"Chinese","Words are sounds of the heart."
"Chinese","Words are mere bubbles of water, but deeds are drops of gold."
"Chinese","Women never praise without gossiping."
"Chinese","Women are as beautiful as flowers when they are forty years old."
"Chinese","Win your lawsuit and lose your money."
"Chinese","Without the aid of the divine, man cannot walk even an inch."
"Chinese","You burn incense before the god, and then topple him."
"Chinese","Within the four seas all man are brethren."
"Chinese","With virtue you can't be entirely poor; without virtue you can't really be rich."
"Chinese","With true friends . . . even water drunk together is sweet enough."
"Chinese","With time and patience the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown."
"Chinese","With money, a dragon -- without it, a worm."
"Chinese","With money you can make the dead speak; without it you can't even keep the deaf quiet."
"Chinese","With money you are a dragon; with no money, a worm."
"Chinese","With money one may command devils; without it, one cannot even summon a man."
"Chinese","With a frog in the well you don't talk about the ocean."
"Chinese","Wisdom is attained by learning when to hold one's tongue."
"Chinese","Women and fools never forgive."
"Chinese","There are three truths: my truth, your truth and the truth."
"Chinese","There is no greater calamity than being consumed by greed."
"Chinese","There is no economy in going to bed early to save candles if the result is twins."
"Chinese","There is no cure for vulgarity."
"Chinese","There is no better sale than when you give a true friend what he needs."
"Chinese","There is gossip every day, but if no one listens anymore the gossip will die."
"Chinese","There is a time to fish and a time to dry the nets."
"Chinese","There belongs more than whistling to going to plough."
"Chinese","There are two sides to every question."
"Chinese","There are two perfectly good men, one dead, and the other unborn."
"Chinese","The wound caused by a sword can eventually be healed; the hurt resulted from vicious remarks can never be undone."
"Chinese","There are two kinds of perfect people: those who are dead, and those who have not been born yet."
"Chinese","There is no silver here: three hundred taels."
"Chinese","There are three kinds of person that you must not challenge: civil servants, customers and widows."
"Chinese","There are thirty-six ways to flee, but to run away is the best."
"Chinese","There are people that fish and those who just disturb the water."
"Chinese","There are only two ways to reach the truth -- with literature and agriculture."
"Chinese","There are no mistakes, only lessons."
"Chinese","There are many paths up the mountain, but the view from the top is always the same."
"Chinese","There are many paths to the top of the mountain, but the view is always the same."
"Chinese","There are always ears on the other side of the wall."
"Chinese","The Yangtze never runs backwards; man recaptures not his youth."
"Chinese","Wake not a sleeping lion."
"Chinese","There are two perfect men; one dead, and the other unborn."
"Chinese","Think of your own faults the first part of the night when you are awake, and of the faults of others the latter part of the night when you are asleep."
"Chinese","Those who play with fire may become its victims."
"Chinese","Those who play the game do not see as clearly as those who watch."
"Chinese","Those who labor with their minds rule; those who labor with their bodies are ruled."
"Chinese","Those who know when they have enough are rich."
"Chinese","Those who hear not the music think the dancers mad."
"Chinese","Those who have free tickets to the theater have the most criticism to make."
"Chinese","Those who have free seats at the play are the first to hiss."
"Chinese","Those who earn a lot are seldom tired, those who get tired seldom earn a lot."
"Chinese","Those who do not study are only cattle dressed up in men's clothes."
"Chinese","Those who do not read are no better off than those who can not."
"Chinese","There is no one to sweep a common hall."
"Chinese","Those who bully the weak are cowards before the strong."
"Chinese","There is no room for two dragons in one pond."
"Chinese","Think before you speak but do not speak all that you think."
"Chinese","Think about your own faults during the first half of the night, and the faults of others during the second half."
"Chinese","Things will develop in the opposite direction when they become extreme."
"Chinese","Thick branches and big leaves."
"Chinese","They who know the truth are not equal to those who love it, and they who love it are not equal to those who find pleasure in it."
"Chinese","There's no insurmountable Mount of Flames."
"Chinese","There's many a good man to be found under a shabby hat."
"Chinese","There is only one pretty child in the world, and every mother has it."
"Chinese","There is no wave without wind."
"Chinese","The world is our house. Keep it clean."
"Chinese","Those who despise money will eventually sponge on their friends."
"Chinese","The saving man becomes the free man."
"Chinese","The tongue is soft but constantly remains; the teeth are hard yet they fall out."
"Chinese","The tongue can paint what the eye can't see."
"Chinese","The thoughtless person buries a well when he is thirsty."
"Chinese","The superior doctor prevents sickness; The mediocre doctor attends to impending sickness; The inferior doctor treats actual sickness."
"Chinese","The sun will shine on those who stand before it shines on those who kneel under them."
"Chinese","The state of a nation is reflected in the home."
"Chinese","The spirit of women is made of quicksilver; their heart of wax."
"Chinese","The sheep has no choice when in the jaws of the wolf."
"Chinese","The sea of bitterness has no bounds - repent and the shore is near."
"Chinese","The Yangtse never runs backwards; man recaptures not his youth."
"Chinese","The scent of a rose will always stay on the hand of the giver."
"Chinese","The tongue that concedes will not wear out; obstinate teeth fall out."
"Chinese","The saddest thing is the death of the heart."
"Chinese","The rose has thorns only for those who would gather it."
"Chinese","The roast duck can fly no more."
"Chinese","The rich man plans for tomorrow, the poor man for today."
"Chinese","The remedy for love is--land between."
"Chinese","The remedy for dirt is soap and water. The remedy for dying is living."
"Chinese","The real scholar is not afraid to ask questions of his pupil."
"Chinese","The pure, upon seeing it pure, call it pure."
"Chinese","The prettiest birds are in a cage."
"Chinese","Wise men are never in a hurry."
"Chinese","The scholar builds the cities, the woman knocks them down."
"Chinese","The wind sweeping through the tower heralds a rising storm in the mountain."
"Chinese","The woman who tells her age is either too young to have anything to lose or too old to have anything to gain."
"Chinese","The woman who deceives her husband makes her lover swear never to be unfaithful to her."
"Chinese","The wolf barks in vain at the moon."
"Chinese","The wise man shapes himself to circumstances as water shapes itself to the vessel that contains it."
"Chinese","The wise man learns more from his enemies than a fool does from his friends."
"Chinese","The wise man forgets insults as the ungrateful forget benefits."
"Chinese","The wise man doesn't say what he does but he never does what can't be said."
"Chinese","The wise man asks questions of himself; the fool questions others."
"Chinese","The wise man and the tortoise travel but never leave their home."
"Chinese","The wise adapt themselves to circumstances, as water moulds itself to the pitcher."
"Chinese","The tongue like a sharp knife...Kills without drawing blood."
"Chinese","The winds of heaven change suddenly; so do human fortunes."
"Chinese","The tongue of a woman is the sword that is never allowed to rust."
"Chinese","The weasel comes to say ""Happy New Year!"" to the chickens."
"Chinese","The way of a slothful man is as a hedge of thorns."
"Chinese","The water that bears the ship is the same that engulfs it."
"Chinese","The water that a ship sails on is the same water that swallows it up."
"Chinese","The war horses are born on the frontiers."
"Chinese","The virtue of a woman does not go deep but her passion knows no limit."
"Chinese","The unfaithful woman has remorse, the faithful one has regret."
"Chinese","The trees want to remain quiet, but the wind will not stop."
"Chinese","The torment of envy is like a grain of sand in the eye."
"Chinese","Those who say it cannot be done should not interrupt the person doing it."
"Chinese","The winds of the heavens shift suddenly; so does human fate."
"Chinese","To stop drinking, study a drunkard when you are sober."
"Chinese","Treat thoughts as guests and wishes as children."
"Chinese","Transgressions should never be forgiven a third time."
"Chinese","Too often do we waste time chasing a gust of wind or grasping at shadows."
"Chinese","Too much spirit shows a lack of it."
"Chinese","Too much politeness conceals deceit."
"Chinese","Today's beneficiary is the incarnation of his preexisting well-doer; the fate of one's next existence lies in his existence today."
"Chinese","To violate the law is the same crime in the emperor as in the subject."
"Chinese","To understand your parents' love you must raise children yourself."
"Chinese","To tell only half the truth is to give life to a new lie."
"Chinese","Those who remove mountains begin by carrying away small stones."
"Chinese","To talk goodness is not good . . . only to do it is."
"Chinese","Turn iron (or stone) into gold by the touch."
"Chinese","To serve a prince is like sleeping with a tiger."
"Chinese","To scrape the light off one's face."
"Chinese","To pretend to satisfy one's desires with worldly goods is like using straw to put out a fire."
"Chinese","To persecute the unfortunate is like throwing stones on one fallen into a well."
"Chinese","To open a shop is easy, to keep it open is an art."
"Chinese","To open a shop is easy -- the hard part is keeping it open."
"Chinese","To open a business is very easy; to keep it open is very difficult."
"Chinese","To open a book brings profit."
"Chinese","To mock your elders is to wreck the house where you have to stay tonight."
"Chinese","To meet an old friend in a distant country is like the delight of rain after a long drought."
"Chinese","To talk much and arrive nowhere is the same as climbing a tree to catch a fish."
"Chinese","Urge people to work, not to eat."
"Chinese","Void of a long-term plan will bring you trouble soon."
"Chinese","Visiting monks give better sermons."
"Chinese","Virtuous for ten years is still not enough; evil for one day is too much already."
"Chinese","Virtue: climbing a hill; vice: running down."
"Chinese","Virtue: climbing a hill; vice: running down."
"Chinese","Virtue practiced to be seen is not real virtue; vice which fears to be seen is real vice."
"Chinese","Virtue never dwells alone, it always has neighbors."
"Chinese","Virtue is not left to stand alone."
"Chinese","Virtue becomes a wife; beauty becomes a concubine."
"Chinese","Victory has hundred fathers and defeat is an orphan."
"Chinese","Trees have already been made into a boat."
"Chinese","Use power to curb power."
"Chinese","True words may not be pleasant, pleasant words may not be true."
"Chinese","Unplowed fields make hollow bellies; unread books make hollow minds."
"Chinese","Unless we change direction, we are likely to end up where we are headed."
"Chinese","Unless there is opposing wind, a kite cannot rise."
"Chinese","Unles we change direction, we are likely to wind up where we are headed."
"Chinese","Unjustly obtained wealth is as snow sprinkled with hot water."
"Chinese","Two tigers cannot share one mountain (forest)."
"Chinese","Two leaps per chasm is fatal."
"Chinese","Two good talkers are not worth one good listener."
"Chinese","Two barrels of tears will not heal a bruise."
"Chinese","To learn what is good, a thousand days are not sufficient; to learn what is evil, an hour is too long."
"Chinese","Vicious as a tigress can be, she never eats her own cubs."
"Chinese","Three glasses of wine end a hundred quarrels."
"Chinese","To make good conversation there are a thousand subjects, but there are still those who cannot meet a cripple without talking about feet."
"Chinese","To be for one day entirely at leisure is to be for one day an immortal."
"Chinese","To be able to curse once a day improves happiness and lengthens life."
"Chinese","To attract good fortune, spend a new coin on an old friend, share an old pleasure with a new friend, and lift up the heart of a true friend by writing his name on the wings of a dragon."
"Chinese","Time is like a river - it flows by and doesn't return."
"Chinese","Time and tide wait for no man."
"Chinese","Thunder is louder than the little rain warrants."
"Chinese","Throw out a brick to attract a jade."
"Chinese","Throw in a rock as someone is drowning in the well."
"Chinese","Three times an early rise makes a whole day."
"Chinese","To be totally at leisure for one day is to be immortal for one day."
"Chinese","Three humble shoemakers brainstorming make a great statesman."
"Chinese","To be uncertain is to be uncomfortable, but to be certain is to be ridiculous."
"Chinese","Though you live near a forest, do not waste firewood."
"Chinese","Though you don't believe in other gods, you believe in the god of thunder; though you don't believe in medicine generally, you believe in laxatives."
"Chinese","Though the emperor be rich, he cannot buy one extra year."
"Chinese","Though talking face to face, their hearts are a thousand miles apart."
"Chinese","Though all rivers flow into it, the sea never overflows."
"Chinese","Those whose palm-kernels were cracked for them by a benevolent spirit should not forget to be humble."
"Chinese","Those who take medicine and neglect their diet waste the skill of the physician."
"Chinese","Those who set their minds on virtue will do no evil."
"Chinese","Those who seek revenge must remember to dig two graves."
"Chinese","The poorer you are, the more devils you meet."
"Chinese","Three simple shoemakers equal one brilliant strategist."
"Chinese","To find out about the road ahead, ask those coming back."
"Chinese","Those who sacrifice their conscience to ambition burn a painting to obtain ashes."
"Chinese","To learn about other people is science, to learn to know yourself is intelligence."
"Chinese","To know the road ahead, ask those coming back."
"Chinese","To know one's self is to know others, for heart can understand heart."
"Chinese","To know another is not to know that person's face, but to know that person's heart."
"Chinese","To know and know that you know, not to know and know that you don't know, that is to know."
"Chinese","To have saved one human life is worth more than to build a pagoda with seven stories."
"Chinese","To have beautiful servant girls is a threat to good marriages."
"Chinese","To guess is cheap, to guess wrong is expensive."
"Chinese","To go beyond is as bad as to fall short."
"Chinese","To be human is easy, to be a human being is difficult."
"Chinese","To forget one's ancestors is to be a brook without a source, a tree without a root."
"Chinese","To listen well is as powerful a means of influence as to talk well, and is as essential to all true conversation."
"Chinese","To feed the ambition in your heart is like carrying a tiger under your arm."
"Chinese","To fall is not painful for those who fly low."
"Chinese","To extend your life by a year, take one less bite each meal."
"Chinese","To enjoy a grander sight, climb to a greater height."
"Chinese","To do good for ten years is not enough; do bad things for one day and it is too much."
"Chinese","To die is to stop living but to stop living is something entirely different than dying."
"Chinese","To cultivate trees, you need 10 years. To cultivate people, you need 100 years."
"Chinese","To climb a tree to catch a fish is talking much and doing nothing."
"Chinese","To believe in one's dreams is to spend all of one's life asleep."
"Chinese","To be uncertain is uncomfortable, but to be certain is ridiculous."
"Chinese","To get through the hardest journey we need take only one step at a time, but we must keep on stepping."
"Chinese","Don't look back when you are walking along the edge of a wall."
"Chinese","Donkey's lips do not fit in with a horse's mouth."
"Chinese","Don't waste too many stones on one bird."
"Chinese","Don't waste good iron for nails or good men for soldiers."
"Chinese","Don't use oiled paper to wrap up fire."
"Chinese","Don't trust your wife until she has borne you ten sons."
"Chinese","Don't suspect your employee. If one is suspicious, don't employ him."
"Chinese","Don't strike a flea on a tiger's head."
"Chinese","Don't stand by the water and long for fish; go home and weave a net."
"Chinese","Don't promise something when you are full of joy; don't answer letters when you are full of anger."
"Chinese","Don't consider your reputation and you may do anything you like."
"Chinese","Don't mention the word ""dwarf"" in front of a short person."
"Chinese","Draw the bow but don't shoot -- it is a bigger threat to be intimidated than to be hit."
"Chinese","Don't let your tongue or your paintbrush wag your tail when they are making up an inventory."
"Chinese","Don't let the falcon loose until you see the hare."
"Chinese","Don't hit one on the face."
"Chinese","Don't hang your conscience on your back."
"Chinese","Don't expect from others what you can't promise them yourself."
"Chinese","Don't draw a sword against a louse."
"Chinese","Don't curse the darkness, light a candle."
"Chinese","Don't curse the darkness ? light a candle."
"Chinese","Don't cross the bridge until you come to it."
"Chinese","Empty the clear path to heaven, crowded the dark road to hell."
"Chinese","Don't open a shop unless you like to smile."
"Chinese","Each generation will reap what the former generation has sown."
"Chinese","Girls marry to please parents, widows to please themselves."
"Chinese","Eighteen daughters beautiful as goddesses are not as good as one crippled son."
"Chinese","Eight Immortals cross the sea, each employing his or her theurgy."
"Chinese","Economize now or suffer want later."
"Chinese","Easy to run downhill, much puffing to run up."
"Chinese","Easy to know men's faces, not their hearts."
"Chinese","Easy to keep the castle that was never besieged."
"Chinese","Easy to enroll a thousand soldiers. But, ah, one general!."
"Chinese","Easy to believe in heaven's law, but so hard to keep."
"Chinese","Easier to rule a nation than a son."
"Chinese","Donkey's lips don't fit onto a horse's mouth."
"Chinese","Each sovereign maintains his own courtiers."
"Chinese","Draw a cake to satisfy one's hunger."
"Chinese","Drunkenness does not produce faults; it discovers them."
"Chinese","Drunkenness does not itself cause bad qualities but it does show them up clearly."
"Chinese","Drunkards talk to the gods."
"Chinese","Dripping water can eat through a stone."
"Chinese","Drinks down your sorrow, but your sorrow returns the morning after."
"Chinese","Drinking with a bosom friend, a thousand shots are too few; Talking with a disagreeable person, half a sentence is too many."
"Chinese","Dream of a funeral and you hear of a marriage."
"Chinese","Dream different dreams while on the same bed."
"Chinese","Dream different dreams on the same bed."
"Chinese","Don't climb a tree to catch a fish."
"Chinese","Easier to bend the body than the will."
"Chinese","Distance tests a horse's strength; time reveals a marls character."
"Chinese","Do not believe that you will reach your destination without leaving the shore."
"Chinese","Do not anxiously hope for that which is not yet come; do not vainly regret what is already past."
"Chinese","Do not answer a fool according to his folly, or you will be like him yourself."
"Chinese","Do not allow the sheep to die for a halfpenny of tar."
"Chinese","Do not all you can; spend not all you have; believe not all you hear; and tell not all you know."
"Chinese","Do not add legs to the snake after you have finished drawing it."
"Chinese","Do good, reap good; do evil, reap evil."
"Chinese","Do everything at the right time and one day will seem like three."
"Chinese","Do everything at its right time, and one day will seem like three."
"Chinese","Don't count your chickens before they are hatched."
"Chinese","Distant water won't help to put out a fire close at hand."
"Chinese","Do not do all you can, do not spend all that you have, do not believe all that you hear, and do not tell all that you know."
"Chinese","Display one's proficiency of axe in front of the master carpenter."
"Chinese","Dismantle the bridge after crossing it."
"Chinese","Discover a well before you are thirsty."
"Chinese","Disasters never come alone."
"Chinese","Diligence is the vehicle on the paths of Mountains of Books; endurance is the vessel on the courses of the Seas of Learning."
"Chinese","Dig the well before you are thirsty."
"Chinese","Different flowers look good to different people."
"Chinese","Devil take the hindmost."
"Chinese","Deviate an inch, lose a thousand miles."
"Chinese","Despise not a small wound or a poor kinsman."
"Chinese","Distant water won't quench your immediate thirst."
"Chinese","Do not look where you fell, but where you slipped."
"Chinese","Don't build a new ship out of old wood."
"Chinese","Don't be a tiger's head with a snake's tail."
"Chinese","Don't ask in this life for the three most difficult things: good sons, long life and a long beard."
"Chinese","Dogs have so many friends because they wag their tails, not their tongues."
"Chinese","Dogs do not dislike poor families."
"Chinese","Dogs are dogs, but cats are people."
"Chinese","Do something good and your neighbor will never know, do something bad and they will hear about it a hundred miles away."
"Chinese","Do not use a hatchet to remove a fly from your friend's forehead."
"Chinese","Do not trust a person who claims to be honest, and never trust exaggerated friendliness."
"Chinese","Do not tear down the east wall to repair the west wall."
"Chinese","Do not confine your children to your own learning, for they were born in another time."
"Chinese","Do not remove a fly from your friend's forehead with a hatchet."
"Chinese","Do not create in anger what you lack in reason."
"Chinese","Do not judge a person until the lid of his coffin is closed."
"Chinese","Do not insult the crocodile until you've crossed the river."
"Chinese","Do not hope to reach a destination without leaving the shore."
"Chinese","Do not have each foot on a different boat."
"Chinese","Do not gaze at the sky from the bottom of a well."
"Chinese","Do not forget little kindnesses and do not remember small faults."
"Chinese","Do not fear going forward slowly; fear only to stand still."
"Chinese","Do not employ handsome servants."
"Chinese","Do not dress in clothes made of leaves when going to put out a fire."
"Chinese","Enjoy yourself - it's later than you think."
"Chinese","Do not talk Arabic in the house of a Moor."
"Chinese","Fish for the moon in the water."
"Chinese","For people who love even water is sweet."
"Chinese","For each man produced by heaven, earth provides a grave."
"Chinese","Fool me once, shame on you; fool me twice, shame on me."
"Chinese","Follow the good and learn their ways."
"Chinese","Flowing water never goes bad; our door hubs never gather termites."
"Chinese","Flowing water never gets dirty."
"Chinese","Flowers look different in different eyes."
"Chinese","Flowers leave some of their fragrance in the hand that bestows them."
"Chinese","Flowers leave a part of their fragrance in the hands that bestow them."
"Chinese","Fearing laws makes one happy every day; withholding truth from heaven worries one all the time."
"Chinese","Fish in muddled water."
"Chinese","Force tells weak from strong for a moment; truth tells right from wrong all the time."
"Chinese","Fish cannot survive in absolutely clear water."
"Chinese","Fish a needle in the sea."
"Chinese","Fire makes mud hard and gold melt."
"Chinese","Fill in the eyes to a painted dragon."
"Chinese","Fighting a wolf with a flex stalk - either side is afraid of the other."
"Chinese","Fight poison with poison."
"Chinese","Fight only when you can win; move away when you cannot."
"Chinese","Fight fire with fire."
"Chinese","Fight a wolf with a flex stalk."
"Chinese","Either do not begin or, having begun, do not give up."
"Chinese","Flies never infest an egg without cracks."
"Chinese","Fragments of fox fur, sewn together, will make a robe."
"Chinese","Get the coffin ready and watch the man mend."
"Chinese","Genius can be recognized by its childish simplicity."
"Chinese","Gems are polished by rubbing, just as men are made brilliant by trials."
"Chinese","Garlands are not for every brow."
"Chinese","Garden flowers larger, field flowers stronger."
"Chinese","Full of courtesy, full of cunning."
"Chinese","Fuel is not sold in a forest, nor fish on a lake."
"Chinese","Fruits of the same tree have different tastes; children of the same mother have various qualities."
"Chinese","From the lowly perspective of a dog's eyes, everyone looks short."
"Chinese","From Nanking to Beijing, buyers are never as smart as the sellers."
"Chinese","For the sake of one good action, a hundred evil ones should be forgotten."
"Chinese","Friend, do not try to borrow combs from shaven monks."
"Chinese","Force may lead to agreement, but truth will lead to conviction."
"Chinese","Foxes grieve over the death of rabbits."
"Chinese","Four things come not back: the spoken word, the spent arrow, the past life, and the neglected opportunity."
"Chinese","Four horses cannot overtake the tongue."
"Chinese","Fortune has a fickle heart and a short memory."
"Chinese","Fortune and flowers do not last forever."
"Chinese","Forget the fishing gear as soon as the fish is caught."
"Chinese","Forget the favors you have given; remember those received."
"Chinese","Forget injuries, never forget kindnesses."
"Chinese","Forethought is easy, repentance hard."
"Chinese","Faults and virtues are but two sides of the same coin."
"Chinese","Friendship between gentlemen appears indifferent but is pure like water."
"Chinese","Even a tower a hundred yards tall has still its foundations on the ground."
"Chinese","Every day cannot be a feast of lanterns."
"Chinese","Every book must be chewed to get out its juice."
"Chinese","Every bird likes his own nest best."
"Chinese","Even when a girl is as shy as a mouse, you still have to beware of the tiger within."
"Chinese","Even ugly faces are worth looking at -- and that is a great comfort for most people."
"Chinese","Even the powerful ox has no defense against flies."
"Chinese","Even the most beautiful morning cannot bring back the evening."
"Chinese","Even the highest towers begin from the ground."
"Chinese","Even for a tree of 10000 feet, it's leaves return to the root when they fall."
"Chinese","Fifty steps laugh at a hundred steps."
"Chinese","Even an accomplished physician cannot cure himself."
"Chinese","Every man assumes the colors of his surroundings."
"Chinese","Even a sheep with the skin of a tiger is afraid of the wolf."
"Chinese","Even a rabbit will bite when it is cornered."
"Chinese","Even a hare will bite when it is cornered."
"Chinese","Even a big elephant can be caught in one female hair."
"Chinese","Enough's as good as a feast."
"Chinese","Enough shovels of earth make a mountain, enough pails of water a river."
"Chinese","Enough shovels of earth -- a mountain. Enough pails of water -- a river."
"Chinese","Enough food and a pipe full of tobacco makes you equal to the immortals."
"Chinese","Enjoy yourself; it's later than you think."
"Chinese","Enjoy yourself. It's later than you think."
"Chinese","Even criminals have their uses; they keep sleepyheads awake."
"Chinese","Fail to steal the chicken while it ate up your bait grain."
"Chinese","Fate leads those who are willing but must push those who are not."
"Chinese","Fat fries and burns itself."
"Chinese","Farewell and be hanged; friends must part."
"Chinese","Far-fetched and dear-bought is good for ladies."
"Chinese","Far waters cannot quench near fires."
"Chinese","Falling hurts least those who fly low."
"Chinese","Fallen leaves return to the root."
"Chinese","Fall seven times, stand up eight."
"Chinese","Faith and dishonesty are other words for uselessness."
"Chinese","Failure is the mother of success."
"Chinese","Every kind of wood is grey when they are reduced to ashes."
"Chinese","Failing to plan is planning to fail."
"Chinese","Every letter must be chewed before you can refresh yourself with its juice."
"Chinese","Experience is a comb which nature gives to men when they are bald."
"Chinese","Exaggeration is to paint a snake and add legs."
"Chinese","Everything in the past died yesterday, and everything in the future is born today."
"Chinese","Everything has its beauty but not everyone sees it."
"Chinese","Everyone stretches his legs according to the length of his coverlet."
"Chinese","Everyone speaks well of the bridge which carries him over."
"Chinese","Everyone should carefully observe which way his heart draws him, and then choose that way with all his strength."
"Chinese","Everyone rakes the fire under his own pot."
"Chinese","Everyone pushes a falling fence."
"Chinese","Defeat isn't bitter if you don't swallow it."
"Chinese","Failure is not falling down but refusing to get up."
"Chinese","An accidental meeting is more pleasant than a planned one."
"Chinese","An inch of time is an inch of gold, but an inch of time cannot be purchased for an inch of gold."
"Chinese","An inch of time cannot be bought with an inch of gold."
"Chinese","An image of a bamboo has already been formed in mind before it is committed to the painting canvas."
"Chinese","An ignorant doctor is no better than a murderer."
"Chinese","An army of a thousand is easy to find, but, ah, how difficult to find a general."
"Chinese","An ant may well destroy an entire dam."
"Chinese","An ant may well destroy a whole dam."
"Chinese","An ant may well destroy a dam."
"Chinese","An answer that does not resolve a quarrel makes a thousand new ones."
"Chinese","All things at first appear difficult."
"Chinese","An aged steed confined to the stable still aspires after the glory of galloping a thousand miles."
"Chinese","An obscure style is a blind mirror."
"Chinese","An able horse will never come back to feed in the same stable."
"Chinese","Among ten matchmakers only nine will lie."
"Chinese","Always take an emergency leisurely."
"Chinese","Always leave a little room for a mistake."
"Chinese","Always keep calm in an emergency."
"Chinese","Although there exist many thousands of subjects for elegant conversation, there are persons who cannot meet a cripple without talking about feet."
"Chinese","Alms given openly will be rewarded in secret."
"Chinese","Almond nuts come to those who have no teeth."
"Chinese","All things seem difficult at first."
"Chinese","Despise learning and make everyone pay for your ignorance."
"Chinese","An ambassador bears no blame."
"Chinese","As a daughter grows up she is like smuggled salt."
"Chinese","Be in readiness for favorable winds."
"Chinese","Be frugal in prosperity, fear not in adversity."
"Chinese","Be first in the field, the last to the couch."
"Chinese","Bald-headed men are ready-made buddhist priests."
"Chinese","Away from home they look at your clothes. At home they look at what is under them."
"Chinese","Avoid suspicion: when you're walking through your neighbor's melon patch, don't tie your shoe."
"Chinese","Avoid suspicion: when you're walking through your neighbor's melon patch, don't tie your shoe."
"Chinese","Aspire to the principle, behave with virtue, abide by benevolence, and immerse yourself in the arts."
"Chinese","Ask no favors and people everywhere are affable; if you don't drink, it doesn't matter what price wine is."
"Chinese","As soon as you have finished a job, you start appreciating the difficulties."
"Chinese","An iron rod can be ground down to become a needle."
"Chinese","As a snipe and a clam are entangled in a fight, a fisherman catch them both."
"Chinese","A thief cries ""Stop thief!""."
"Chinese","Approach heaven with a single stride."
"Chinese","Anyone can buy a good house, but good neighbors are priceless."
"Chinese","Any book you open will benefit your mind."
"Chinese","Anger is always more harmful than the insult that caused it."
"Chinese","An overturned cart ahead warns the one behind."
"Chinese","An overcrowded chicken farm produce fewer eggs."
"Chinese","An old man in love is like a flower in winter."
"Chinese","An old friend met in a far country is like rain after drought."
"Chinese","An old bachelor compares life with a shirt button that hangs often by a thread."
"Chinese","All the past died yesterday; the future is born today."
"Chinese","As long as time is not pressing one does not burn incense; when it becomes urgent one kisses the feet of Buddha."
"Chinese","A tiger's head and a snake's tail."
"Chinese","A wise man makes his own decisions, an ignorant man follows the public opinion."
"Chinese","A wise man is able to adapt to the surprises of life as water to the decanter it is poured in."
"Chinese","A wise man adapts himself to circumstances, as water shapes itself to the vessel that contains it."
"Chinese","A wicked companion invites us all to hell."
"Chinese","A wicked book cannot repent."
"Chinese","A whitewashed crow soon shows black again."
"Chinese","A well mannered man does not step on the shadow of his fellow man."
"Chinese","A weir close to completion left undone due to the shortage of a basket of earth."
"Chinese","A watched flower never blooms, while a carelessly planted willow grows into shade."
"Chinese","All things change, and we change with them."
"Chinese","A truly great man never puts away the simplicity of a child."
"Chinese","A woman gets thirty percent of her beauty from nature and seventy percent from makeup."
"Chinese","A tiger never returns to his prey he did not finish off."
"Chinese","A tiger cannot beat a crowd of monkeys."
"Chinese","A thriftless woman burns the entire candle looking for a match."
"Chinese","A thousand workers, a thousand plans."
"Chinese","A thousand pounds and a bottle of hay are all one at domesday."
"Chinese","A thousand cups of wine do not suffice when true friends meet, but half a sentence is too much when there is no meeting of minds."
"Chinese","A thorn defends the rose, harming only those who would steal the blossom."
"Chinese","A thief has more than two hands."
"Chinese","With happiness comes intelligence to the heart."
"Chinese","Just scales and full measure injure no man."
"Chinese","A vacant mind is open to all suggestions, as a hollow mountain returns all sounds."
"Chinese","Add frost to snow."
"Chinese","All rotten fish taste the same."
"Chinese","All roads lead to Beijing."
"Chinese","All people are your relatives, therefore expect only trouble from them."
"Chinese","All of life is a dream walking, all of death is a going home."
"Chinese","All gardeners know better than other gardeners."
"Chinese","All cats love fish but fear to wet their paws."
"Chinese","Aged ginger is more pungent."
"Chinese","After three days without reading, talk becomes flavorless."
"Chinese","After all, harming others means you first harm yourself."
"Chinese","Add oil to a fire."
"Chinese","A wise man takes his own decisions; the ignorant goes with the crowd."
"Chinese","Add legs to the snake after you have finished drawing it."
"Chinese","A wise man will not rebuke a fool."
"Chinese","Add a flower to a bouquet."
"Chinese","Active people never have louse bites."
"Chinese","Abroad we judge the dress; at home we judge the man."
"Chinese","A young woman with an old man is really someone else's woman."
"Chinese","A young doctor makes a full graveyard."
"Chinese","A young branch takes on all the bends that one gives it."
"Chinese","A year's harvest counts on spring; a man's success counts on his diligence."
"Chinese","A word once spoken, an army of chariots cannot overtake it."
"Chinese","A woman that always laughs is everybody's wife; a man that is always laughing is an idiot."
"Chinese","Be not afraid of growing slowly, be afraid only of standing still."
"Chinese","Add legs to the snake one has just painted."
"Chinese","Careless rat chewing on a cat's tail: beware lightning!."
"Chinese","Compromise is always a temporary achievement."
"Chinese","Clumsy birds have need of early flight."
"Chinese","Climb mountains to see lowlands."
"Chinese","Clear conscience never fears midnight knocking."
"Chinese","Choose your lodging before dark and leave before the morning dew."
"Chinese","Choose your inn before dark, get back on the road before dawn."
"Chinese","Cheat the earth and the earth will cheat you."
"Chinese","Cheap things are not good, good things are not cheap."
"Chinese","Charity is not a bone you throw to a dog, but a bone you share with a dog."
"Chinese","Be just before you're generous."
"Chinese","Cautious, careful people, always casting about to preserve their reputations, can never effect a reform."
"Chinese","Conquerors are kings; the beaten are bandits."
"Chinese","By filling one's head instead of one's pocket, one cannot be robbed."
"Chinese","By day think of your own faults, by night think of the faults of others."
"Chinese","Butcher the donkey after it finished his job on the mill."
"Chinese","Burn one day's gathering of firewood on the same day."
"Chinese","Burn not your house to fright the mouse away."
"Chinese","Books speak to the mind, friends to the heart, heaven to the soul, all else to the ears."
"Chinese","Blessings do not come in pairs; misfortunes never come singly."
"Chinese","Blame yourself if you have no branches or leaves; don't accuse the sun of partiality."
"Chinese","Blame yourself as you would blame others; excuse others as you would excuse yourself."
"Chinese","Biggest profits mean gravest risks."
"Chinese","Ceremony is the smoke of friendship."
"Chinese","Crows everywhere are equally black."
"Chinese","Don't want others to know what you have done? Better not have done it anyway."
"Chinese","Defeat is never a bitter brew until one agrees to swallow it."
"Chinese","Deer-hunter, waste not your arrow on the hare."
"Chinese","Deep down all men are alike -- and that is the problem."
"Chinese","Deep doubts, deep wisdom; small doubts, little wisdom."
"Chinese","Deal with the faults of others as gently as with your own."
"Chinese","Dead songbirds make a sad meal."
"Chinese","Dead song-birds make a sad meal."
"Chinese","Dangerous enemies will meet again in narrow streets."
"Chinese","Customers are jade; merchandise is grass."
"Chinese","Concealing truth is like wearing embroidered clothes and traveling by night."
"Chinese","Curse your wife at evening, sleep alone at night."
"Chinese","Confucius say too much."
"Chinese","Crisis brings opportunity and change."
"Chinese","Covetous men's chests are rich, not they."
"Chinese","Covet wealth, and want it; don't, and luck will grant it."
"Chinese","Courtesy never offended anybody."
"Chinese","Count not what is lost but what is left."
"Chinese","Corporations have neither bodies to be punished nor souls to be damned."
"Chinese","Corner a dog in a dead-end street and it will turn and bite."
"Chinese","Continually give, continually gain."
"Chinese","Consider the past and you shall know the future."
"Chinese","Beware of the camel going to seek horns, he lost his ears."
"Chinese","Cursed cows have short horns."
"Chinese","Beautiful girls are seldom happy, intelligent boys are seldom beautiful."
"Chinese","Big ships often sail on big debts."
"Chinese","Being in the right does not depend on having a loud voice."
"Chinese","Behind every able man, there are always other able men."
"Chinese","Behind an able man there are always other able men."
"Chinese","Begin with an error of an inch and end by being a thousand miles off the mark."
"Chinese","Before you prepare to improve the world, look around your own house three times."
"Chinese","Before you plan to improve the world, look around your own house three times."
"Chinese","Before you beat the dog, find out the name of his master."
"Chinese","Before preparing to improve the world, first look around your own home three times."
"Chinese","Because men do not like the cold, Heaven does not cause winter to cease."
"Chinese","Better a diamond with a flaw than a pebble without one."
"Chinese","Beautiful roads never go far."
"Chinese","Better a dinner of herbs than a stalled ox where hate is."
"Chinese","Beat your gong and sell your candles."
"Chinese","Beat your drum inside the house to spare the neighbors."
"Chinese","Beat the grass to frighten the snakes."
"Chinese","Be the first to the field and the last to the couch."
"Chinese","Be slow to promise but quick to perform."
"Chinese","Be skeptical; long garments can also hide big feet."
"Chinese","Be resolved and the thing is done."
"Chinese","Be on a horse when you go in search of a better one."
"Chinese","Be not disturbed at being misunderstood; be disturbed rather at not being understanding."
"Chinese","Defer not till to-morrow what may be done to-day."
"Chinese","Beauty is the wisdom of women. Wisdom is the beauty of men."
"Chinese","Better the cold blast of winter than the hot breath of a pursuing elephant."
"Chinese","Be not afraid of going slowly; be only afraid of standing still."
"Chinese","Beware of one with a honeyed tongue and a sword in the belly."
"Chinese","Better to satisfy the body than to tarnish the soul."
"Chinese","Better to light one small candle than to curse the darkness."
"Chinese","Better to light a candle, than to curse the darkness."
"Chinese","Better to learn one thing well than to know ten superficially."
"Chinese","Better to drink the weak tea of a friend than the sweet wine of an enemy."
"Chinese","Better to do a kindness near home than go far away to burn incense."
"Chinese","Better to be the beak of a chicken than the rump of an ox."
"Chinese","Better to be a dog in peacetime that a man in wartime."
"Chinese","Believe your servants but do not listen to them."
"Chinese","Better the cottage where one is merry than the palace where one weeps."
"Chinese","Big chickens don't peck at small seeds."
"Chinese","Better go to heaven in rags than to hell in embroidery."
"Chinese","Better go than send."
"Chinese","Better do it than wish it done."
"Chinese","Better do a kindness near home than go far to burn incense."
"Chinese","Better do a good deed near at home than go far away to burn incense."
"Chinese","Better die ten years early than live ten years poor."
"Chinese","Better be too credulous than too skeptical."
"Chinese","Better be kind at home than burn incense in a far place."
"Chinese","Better a live beggar than a dead king."
"Chinese","Better a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith."
"Chinese","Better the devil you know than the devil you don't."
"Chinese","If you are not so strong, don't carry heavy burdens."
"Chinese","If you can't change your fate, change your attitude."
"Chinese","If you can command yourself, you can command the world."
"Chinese","If you bow at all, bow low."
"Chinese","If you beat spice it will smell the sweeter."
"Chinese","If you ask for directions rudely, you might end up a long distance from your destination."
"Chinese","If you are standing upright, don't worry if your shadow is crooked. If you want an audience, start a fight."
"Chinese","If you are poor, though you dwell in the busy marketplace, no one will inquire about you; if you are rich, though you dwell in the heart of the mountains, you will have distant relatives."
"Chinese","If you are planning for one year, grow rice. If you are planning for 20 years grow trees. If you are planning for centuries, grow men."
"Chinese","If you are planning for a year, sow rice; if you are planning for a decade, plant trees; if you are planning for a lifetime, educate people."
"Chinese","If you walk on snow you cannot hide your footprints."
"Chinese","If you are patient in a moment of anger, you will escape a hundred days of sorrow."
"Chinese","If you do not want anyone to know, do not do it."
"Chinese","If you are not a fish, how can you know if the fish are happy?"
"Chinese","The pine stays green in winter...Wisdom in hardship."
"Chinese","The person who says it cannot be done should not interrupt the person doing it."
"Chinese","The person who is his own master cannot tolerate another boss. It's better to be without a book than to believe a book entirely. When economy goes south, people get political."
"Chinese","The person who has never been cheated cannot be a good businessman."
"Chinese","The people who talk the best are not the only ones who can tell you the most interesting things."
"Chinese","The people sitting in the free theater seats are the first ones to boo."
"Chinese","The peony is beautiful, yet it is supported by a stalk."
"Chinese","The pen of the tongue should be dipped in the ink of the heart."
"Chinese","The pen can kill a man; no knife is needed."
"Chinese","If you are patient in one moment of anger, you will escape a hundred days of sorrow."
"Chinese","If you have nothing to do, go home early."
"Chinese","The journey of a thousand miles starts with a single step."
"Chinese","If you suspect a man, don't employ him, and if you employ him, don't suspect him."
"Chinese","If you stay long enough in one place the whole world passes you by."
"Chinese","If you stand straight, do not fear a crooked shadow."
"Chinese","If you share a man's wealth, try to lessen his misfortune."
"Chinese","If you see in your wine the reflection of a person not in your range of vision, don't drink it."
"Chinese","If you plant melons , you get melons; if you plant beans, you get beans."
"Chinese","If you pay peanuts, you get monkeys."
"Chinese","If you never go up a hill, you will never know what a plain is like."
"Chinese","If you must play, decide upon three things at the start: the rules of the game, the stakes, and the quitting time."
"Chinese","If you curse your wife in the evening, you will sleep alone at night. A crisis is an opportunity riding the dangerous wind."
"Chinese","If you have two loaves of bread, sell one and buy a lily."
"Chinese","If you do not study hard when young you'll end up bewailing your failures as you grow up."
"Chinese","If you have nothing else to offer me, offer me your smile."
"Chinese","If you have never done anything wrong, you should not be worrying about devils to knock at your door."
"Chinese","If you have money and wine, your friends will be many."
"Chinese","If you get up one more time than you fall you will make it through."
"Chinese","If you don't want to be cheated, ask the price at three shops."
"Chinese","If you don't want anyone to know, don't do it."
"Chinese","If you don't stand for something, you will fall for something."
"Chinese","If you don't speculate, you can't accumulate."
"Chinese","If you don't scale the mountain, you can't view the plain."
"Chinese","The past remembered is a good guide for the future."
"Chinese","If you must play, decide on three things at the start: the rules of the game, the stakes, and the quitting time."
"Chinese","The lotus springs from the mud."
"Chinese","The peacock hath fair feathers, but a foul voice."
"Chinese","The man who says it cannot be done, should not interrupt a man who is doing it."
"Chinese","The man who says it can't be done should not interrupt the person doing it."
"Chinese","The man who removes a mountain begins by carrying away small stones."
"Chinese","The man who is not destined to die will be cured by medicine."
"Chinese","The man who does not learn is dark, like one walking in the night."
"Chinese","The man who comes with a talk about others has himself an ax to grind."
"Chinese","The man who comes with a tale about others has himself an ax to grind."
"Chinese","The man is heaven and earth in miniature."
"Chinese","The maker of laws must be severe; who executes them must be generous."
"Chinese","The man who wakes up and finds himself famous hasn't been asleep."
"Chinese","The main road is an easy way, but everyone loves the side streets."
"Chinese","The man whose conscience is clear will never fear a knock on the door at midnight."
"Chinese","The lotus root may be severed, but its fibered threads are still connected."
"Chinese","The loss of one night's sleep is followed by ten days of inconvenience."
"Chinese","The longer the night lasts, the more our dreams will be."
"Chinese","The lone wolf may yet kill as many deer as a pack."
"Chinese","The lone sheep is in danger of the wolf."
"Chinese","The loftiest towers rise from the ground."
"Chinese","The little pot is soonest hot."
"Chinese","The life of an old man can be compared with the flame of a candle in a drought."
"Chinese","The less power a man has, the more he likes to use it."
"Chinese","The law is good, but people are not."
"Chinese","The main thing is that we can smile at our duties -- yes even at our suffering."
"Chinese","The most highly praised woman is the one about whom no one speaks."
"Chinese","If you want 1 year of prosperity, grow grain. If you want 10 years of prosperity, grow trees. If you want 100 years of prosperity, grow people."
"Chinese","The palest ink lasts longer than the most retentive memory."
"Chinese","The palest ink is better than the best memory."
"Chinese","The palace leads to fame, the market to fortune, and loneliness to wisdom."
"Chinese","The only thing that was missing at the rich man's funeral was mourners."
"Chinese","The one who understands does not speak, the one who speaks does not understand."
"Chinese","The one who removed the mountain was the one who began carrying away stones."
"Chinese","The one who plants the tree is not the one who will enjoy its shade."
"Chinese","The one who first resorts to violence shows that he has no more arguments."
"Chinese","The older the ginger, the more it bites."
"Chinese","The man who strikes first admits that his ideas have given out."
"Chinese","The most important thing in life is to be buried well."
"Chinese","The path of duty lies in what is near at hand, but men seek for it in what is remote."
"Chinese","The more you try to cover things up, the more exposed they will be."
"Chinese","The more you sweat in Peacetime, The less you bleed during War."
"Chinese","The more acquaintances you have, the less you know them."
"Chinese","The miser does not own the gold, it is the gold that owns the miser."
"Chinese","The miracle is not to fly in the air, or to walk on the water, but to walk on the earth."
"Chinese","The mind is the emperor of the body."
"Chinese","The mighty tree must catch the wind."
"Chinese","The merciful do not engage in war, and the righteous do not engage in finances."
"Chinese","The melon seller does not announce, ""Bitter melons."" Distant water does not put out a nearby fire."
"Chinese","The man will surely fail, who dares delay, And lose to-morrow that has lost to-day."
"Chinese","The net of heaven is large and wide, but it lets nothing through."
"Chinese","It is good to strike the serpent's head with your enemy's hand."
"Chinese","It is the beautiful bird that gets caged."
"Chinese","It is only good when the old and the young respect each other."
"Chinese","It is often more difficult to come back home than it is to go away."
"Chinese","It is not the knowing that is difficult, but the doing."
"Chinese","It is not the destination that is important, but the journey there."
"Chinese","It is not necessary to light a candle to the sun."
"Chinese","It is not economical to go to bed early to save the candles if the result is twins."
"Chinese","It is no good going to the river just wanting to catch a fish; you have to take a net as well."
"Chinese","It is later than you think."
"Chinese","If you suspect someone, don't employ them; if you employ someone, don't suspect them."
"Chinese","It is harder to be poor without complaining than to be rich without boasting."
"Chinese","It never rains on your neighbors without you getting your feet wet."
"Chinese","It is foolish for someone to seek credit for his ancestor's achievements."
"Chinese","It is easy to open a store -- the hard part is keeping it open."
"Chinese","It is easy to govern a kingdom but difficult to rule one's family."
"Chinese","It is easy to get a thousand soldiers, but difficult to get one general."
"Chinese","It is easy to dodge the arrow of an enemy, but difficult to avoid the spear of a friend."
"Chinese","It is easy to dodge a spear that comes in front of you but hard to avoid an arrow shot from behind."
"Chinese","It is easier to visit your friends than to live with them."
"Chinese","It is easier to visit friends than to live with them."
"Chinese","It is easier to know how to do than it is to do."
"Chinese","It is easier to govern a country than a son."
"Chinese","It is impossible to add much weight with a single morsel; it is hard to travel afar with a single step."
"Chinese","It's better to do good in the neighborhood than to burn incense far away."
"Chinese","Just because men do not like the cold, Heaven will not stop the winter."
"Chinese","Just as tall trees are known by their shadows, so are good men known by their enemies."
"Chinese","Just as a medicine may not cure a serious illness, wine will certainly not dispel your grief."
"Chinese","Judge not the horse by his saddle."
"Chinese","Jam tomorrow and jam yesterday, but never jam today."
"Chinese","Jails are always closed yet full, while temples are always open yet empty."
"Chinese","Jade and men, both are sharpened by bitter tools."
"Chinese","It's your own lantern; don't poke holes in the paper."
"Chinese","It's not the fleas of the dog that make the cat meow."
"Chinese","It's not the beauty of a woman that blinds the man, the man blinds himself."
"Chinese","It is the beautiful bird which gets caged."
"Chinese","It's better to light a candle than to curse the darkness."
"Chinese","It is too late for a galloping horse to stop at a clip; it is useless for a sinking boat to be mended in the middle of a river."
"Chinese","It's better to die two years early than to live one year too long."
"Chinese","It's better for people to wait for rice, than rice for people."
"Chinese","It's as difficult to be rich without bragging as it is to be poor without complaining."
"Chinese","It takes true heroism to conquer oneself."
"Chinese","It takes three years to learn to be a man of integrity; it only takes three days to degrade."
"Chinese","It takes more than one cold day for a river to freeze three feet deep."
"Chinese","It takes little effort to watch a man carry a load."
"Chinese","It takes a year to make a friend, but you can lose one in an hour."
"Chinese","It takes a tree ten years to mature; it takes a man one hundred years to form."
"Chinese","It is difficult to catch a black cat in a dark room -- especially if the cat isn't there."
"Chinese","It's not that the well is too deep, but rather the rope is too short."
"Chinese","If you wish to know the mind of a man, listen to his words."
"Chinese","It is easier to get a chicken back in the egg than to undo a slander."
"Chinese","In every family's cooking pot is one black spot."
"Chinese","In a group of many words, there is bound to be a mistake somewhere in them."
"Chinese","In a broken nest there are few whole eggs."
"Chinese","Illness comes in by mouth; ills come out by it."
"Chinese","Ill gotten gains are like snow that is sprinkled with hot water."
"Chinese","If your strength is small, don't carry heavy burdens. If your words are worthless, don't give advice."
"Chinese","If your mind is strong, all difficult things will become easy; if your mind is weak, all easy things will become difficult."
"Chinese","If your books are not read, your descendants will be ignorant."
"Chinese","If you're born to be hanged, then you'll never be drowned."
"Chinese","In his decision the judge with seven reasons gives only one in court."
"Chinese","If you wish to know what most occupies a man's thoughts, you have only to listen to his conversation."
"Chinese","In reviling, it is not necessary to prepare a preliminary draft."
"Chinese","If you want your children to have a peaceful life, let them suffer a little hunger and a little coldness."
"Chinese","If you want to know your past, look into your present conditions. If you want to know your future -- look into your present actions."
"Chinese","If you want to know someone's character, look at the friends he keeps."
"Chinese","If you want to go up in the world, veil ambition with the forms of humanity."
"Chinese","If you want to find out about the road ahead, then ask about it from those coming back."
"Chinese","If you want to avoid being cheated, ask for prices at three different stores."
"Chinese","If you want happiness for an hour -- take a nap. If you want happiness for a day -- go fishing. If you want happiness for a month -- get married. If you want happiness for a year -- inherit a fortune. If you want happiness for a lifetime -- help someone else."
"Chinese","If you want dinner, don't insult the cook."
"Chinese","If you want an audience, start a fight."
"Chinese","If you want a crop for one year, grow grain; if you want a crop for ten years, grow a tree; if you want a crop for a hundred years, grow men."
"Chinese","If you would be happy for a week, take a wife; if you would be happy for a month, kill a pig; but if you would be happy all your life, plant a garden."
"Chinese","Insanity is doing the same thing in the same way and expecting a different outcome."
"Chinese","In shallow holes moles make fools of dragons."
"Chinese","It is better to start weaving your fishing nets than merely coveting fish at the water."
"Chinese","It is better to save your innocence at the cost of your honor, than to save your country at the cost of your life."
"Chinese","It is better to light one candle than to curse the darkness."
"Chinese","It is better to light a candle than to curse the darkness."
"Chinese","It is better to be without a book than to believe it entirely."
"Chinese","It is better to be entirely without a book than to believe it entirely."
"Chinese","It is a sad situation for a son-in-law when his mother-in-law praises him."
"Chinese","It is a little thing to starve to death; it is a serious matter to lose one's virtue."
"Chinese","It does not matter if your tavern sits in a remote location so long as the smell of your wine is appealing."
"Chinese","In face of evil, one would rather be a jade broken than a brick intact."
"Chinese","Insects do not nest in a busy door-hinge."
"Chinese","It is difficult to repay the gifts you get at a wedding or a funeral."
"Chinese","Injure others, injure yourself."
"Chinese","Indulgences have more victims than swords."
"Chinese","In the presence of princes the cleverest jester is mute."
"Chinese","In the midst of great joy do not promise to give a man anything; in the midst of great anger do not answer a man's letter."
"Chinese","In the coldest flint there is hot fire."
"Chinese","In the broken nest there are no whole eggs."
"Chinese","In the ant's house, the dew is a flood."
"Chinese","Don't try to make predictions -- especially those concerning the future."
"Chinese","In shallow waters, shrimps make fools of dragons."
"Chinese","Girls will be girls."
"Chinese","Intelligence is endowed, but wisdom is learned."
"Chinese","He who can persuade someone not to gamble has earned money for him."
"Chinese","He who does not know what to do in his spare time is not a businessman."
"Chinese","He who does not feed his cat will feed rats."
"Chinese","He who deliberates fully before taking a step will spend his entire life on one leg."
"Chinese","He who covers up his mistakes intends to make some more."
"Chinese","He who could foresee affairs three days in advance would be rich for thousands of years."
"Chinese","He who cheats the earth will be cheated by the earth."
"Chinese","He who carves the Buddha never worships him."
"Chinese","He who cannot suffer discomfort, will not be called for important things."
"Chinese","He who cannot boast cannot succeed."
"Chinese","He painted a tiger, but it turned out a dog."
"Chinese","He who can predict winning numbers should not set off fire crackers."
"Chinese","He who goes his own way does not deserve being received."
"Chinese","He who asks is a fool for five minutes, but he who does not ask remains a fool forever."
"Chinese","He who asks a question may be a fool for five minutes; he who asks no questions stays a fool forever."
"Chinese","He who asks a question is a fool for five minutes; he who does not ask a question remains a fool forever."
"Chinese","He who always eats the roots of a plant is capable of any thing."
"Chinese","He that once deceives is ever suspected."
"Chinese","He that is not eager to be pawed in cash is not a businessman."
"Chinese","He that is afraid to shake the dice will never throw a six."
"Chinese","He that has not bread to spare should not keep a dog."
"Chinese","He that has no silver in his purse, should have silver on his tongue."
"Chinese","He who rides the tiger can never dismount."
"Chinese","He who cannot agree with his enemies is controlled by them."
"Chinese","He who is narrow of vision cannot be big of heart."
"Chinese","He who rides on a tiger can never get off."
"Chinese","He who rides a tiger is afraid to dismount."
"Chinese","He who restrains his appetite avoids debt."
"Chinese","He who plays with fire may become its victim."
"Chinese","He who opens his heart for ambition, closes it for the rest."
"Chinese","He who loves peace minds his own business."
"Chinese","He who knows his heart mistrusts his eyes."
"Chinese","He who knows he is a fool is not a big fool."
"Chinese","He who is thirsty dreams that he is drinking."
"Chinese","He who is sure of his victory will not start a war."
"Chinese","He who does not regularly put on clean socks will never get used to circus life."
"Chinese","He who is not friendly towards a good guest will never have one."
"Chinese","He who flatters me is my enemy, who blames me is my teacher."
"Chinese","He who is master of himself cannot tolerate another boss."
"Chinese","He who is hungry is never a good civil servant."
"Chinese","He who is drowned is not troubled by the rain."
"Chinese","He who hurries can not walk with dignity."
"Chinese","He who hasn't a penny sees bargains everywhere."
"Chinese","He who has never been cheated, cannot be a good businessman."
"Chinese","He who has a straight body is not worried about his crooked shadow."
"Chinese","He who has a lot of money and no children is not rich; he who has many children and no money is not a pauper."
"Chinese","He who governs by his moral excellence may be compared to the Pole star which abides in its place while all other stars bow towards it."
"Chinese","He hath lived ill that knows not how to die well."
"Chinese","He who is not satisfied with himself will grow; he who is not sure of his own correctness will learn many things."
"Chinese","Going to law is losing a cow for the sake of a cat."
"Chinese","Govern yourself and you can govern the world."
"Chinese","Govern a family as you would cook a small fish -- very gently."
"Chinese","Good will be rewarded with good and evil with evil; it is only a matter of time."
"Chinese","Good manners can be paid for with compliments, but only the sound of money will pay your debts."
"Chinese","Good fortune may forbode bad luck, which may in turn disguise good fortune."
"Chinese","Good deeds never leave home, bad ones echo a thousand miles."
"Chinese","Good behavior is a virtue for the man -- bad behavior is the virtue of a woman."
"Chinese","Gold is tested by fire, man by gold."
"Chinese","Gold has its price; learning is beyond price."
"Chinese","He that has no money might as well be buried in a rice tub with his mouth sewn up."
"Chinese","Going too far is as bad as falling short."
"Chinese","Great boast, small roast."
"Chinese","Going into a country the first time, ask what is forbidden; on entering a village, ask what are the customs; on entering a private house, ask what should not be mentioned."
"Chinese","Going beyond is as bad as falling short."
"Chinese","God and fairies can be wrong as well."
"Chinese","Go home and make a net if you desire to get fishes."
"Chinese","Give one fish and he's fed for only a day. Teach one how to fish and he'll be free from hunger all his life."
"Chinese","Give it to the Yangtze that rambles east to the sea."
"Chinese","Give a man a fish, and he'll eat for a day. Teach him how to fish and he'll eat forever."
"Chinese","Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day. Teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime."
"Chinese","Give a man a fish and he will eat for a day. Teach a man to fish and he will eat for the rest of his life."
"Chinese","The journey is the reward."
"Chinese","Gold and silver are mingled with dirt, till avarice parted them."
"Chinese","Happiness has its roots -- sorrow has its womb."
"Chinese","He has too many lice to feel an itch."
"Chinese","He comes with incense in one hand, in the other a spear."
"Chinese","Have patience, the grass will be milk soon enough."
"Chinese","Have one's ears pierced only before the wedding ceremony starts."
"Chinese","Have but few friends though much acquaintance."
"Chinese","Have a mouth as sharp as a dagger, but a heart as soft as tofu."
"Chinese","Hatred corrodes the vessel in which it is stored."
"Chinese","Happy people never count hours as they pass."
"Chinese","Happy is the man without sickness. Rich is the man with no debts."
"Chinese","Happy is the man who knows he's happy."
"Chinese","Grass fears the frost, frost fears the sun."
"Chinese","Happiness is like a sunbeam, which the least shadow intercepts, while adversity is often as the rain in the spring."
"Chinese","Great blessings come from heaven; small blessings come from man."
"Chinese","Habits are cobwebs at first; cables at last."
"Chinese","Guard against disgrace in times of favor; be prepared for danger in times of safety."
"Chinese","Great wealth is a gift from heaven; moderate wealth results from frugality."
"Chinese","Great things can be reduced to small things, and small things can be reduced to nothing."
"Chinese","Great souls have wills; feeble ones have only wishes."
"Chinese","Great people give it with reproaches."
"Chinese","Great doubts deep wisdom. Small doubts little wisdom."
"Chinese","Great cry and little wool, as the fellow said when he sheared his hogs."
"Chinese","Great business is good; to sit and sip this glass is better."
"Chinese","He who hides his faults plans to make more."
"Chinese","Happiness is something to do, something to love, something to hope for."
"Chinese","If the pedestal is beautiful the statue must be even more beautiful."
"Chinese","If i am virtuous and worthy, for whom should i not maintain a proper concern?"
"Chinese","If what we see is doubtful, how can we believe what is spoken behind the back."
"Chinese","If we don't change our direction we're likely to end up where we're headed."
"Chinese","If we do not change our direction we are likely to end up where we are headed for."
"Chinese","He who has nothing to lose is rich."
"Chinese","If there is light in the soul, there will be beauty in the person. If there is beauty in the person, there will be harmony in the house. If there is harmony in the house, there will be order in the nation. If there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world."
"Chinese","He who sacrifices his conscience to ambition burns a picture to obtain the ashes."
"Chinese","If there is a wave there must be a wind."
"Chinese","If there is a strong general, there will be no weak soldiers."
"Chinese","If there are no clouds there will be no rain."
"Chinese","If you accommodate others, you will be accommodating yourself."
"Chinese","If the well is distant, its water does not quench the thirst of the pilgrim."
"Chinese","If you always give, you will always have."
"Chinese","If the main timbers in the house are not straight, the smaller timber will be unsafe; and if the smaller timbers are not straight, the house will fall."
"Chinese","If the lips are gone, the teeth will grow cold."
"Chinese","If the dog leads the man, the man is blind. If the man leads the dog, the man is married."
"Chinese","If rain bothers you, you can always jump into the sea."
"Chinese","If one word does not succeed, ten thousand are of no avail."
"Chinese","If one man guards a narrow pass, ten thousand cannot get through."
"Chinese","If one eats less, one will taste more."
"Chinese","If no one comes the dog does not bark."
"Chinese","If life is fulfilled we go away with empty hands."
"Chinese","If I keep a green bough in my heart, then the singing bird will come."
"Chinese","If there are many buyers in the market, the merchant doesn't wash his turnips."
"Chinese","The happiness in your pocket, don't spend it all."
"Chinese","The jewel of the air is the sun; the jewel of the house is the child."
"Chinese","The jail is closed day and night and always full; temples are always open and still empty."
"Chinese","The itch that gives someone skill is difficult to scratch."
"Chinese","The human heart is never satisfied, just like the snake that wants to swallow an elephant."
"Chinese","The human heart is difficult to gauge."
"Chinese","The household with its own elder has indeed its own adornment."
"Chinese","The house with an old grandparent harbors a jewel."
"Chinese","The heart of a little child is like the heart of buddha."
"Chinese","The heart is but the beach beside the sea that is the world."
"Chinese","The harvest of a whole year depends on what you sow in the springtime."
"Chinese","If wishes were horses, beggars would ride."
"Chinese","The harder you fall, the higher you bounce."
"Chinese","If there is beauty in character, there will be harmony in the home. If there is harmony in the home, there will be order in the nation. If there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world."
"Chinese","The happiest life ends before death."
"Chinese","The guest who outstays his fellow guests loses his overcoat."
"Chinese","The greatest virtue is like water; good for everything."
"Chinese","The greatest conqueror is he who overcomes the enemy without a blow."
"Chinese","If you are married to a chicken obey the chicken. If you are married to a dog obey the dog."
"Chinese","If you are in a hurry, go via the roundabout."
"Chinese","If you are in a hurry you will never get there."
"Chinese","If you are hunting for a red deer then ignore the hares."
"Chinese","If you are going to walk on thin ice, you might as well dance."
"Chinese","If you are going to have a roast, a chicken is better than a phoenix."
"Chinese","The hardest step is over the threshold."
"Chinese","He who wants to be a dragon must eat many little snakes."
"Chinese","How can you expect to find ivory in a dog's mouth?"
"Chinese","Honing your hatchet will not delay your effort of wood cutting."
"Chinese","Honey in his mouth, knives in his heart."
"Chinese","Hold back some goods for a thousand days and you will be sure to sell at a profit."
"Chinese","Hit a stone with an egg."
"Chinese","Hidden dragons, crouching tigers."
"Chinese","Help the needy but not the poor."
"Chinese","Heavenly music is interpreted differently by everyone."
"Chinese","Heaven lent you a soul Earth will lend a grave."
"Chinese","How can you put out a fire set on a cart-load of firewood with only a cup of water."
"Chinese","He who was presented with an ox must give in return a horse."
"Chinese","He who takes revenge for a small insult, will have a bigger one thrown at him."
"Chinese","He who trips and falls should not blame his foot."
"Chinese","He who travels a lot becomes wise; he who is wise stays home."
"Chinese","He who thinks too much about every step he takes will stay on one leg all his life."
"Chinese","If his legs fail him, he fights on his knees."
"Chinese","He who strikes the first blow admits he's lost the argument."
"Chinese","If thine enemy wrong thee, buy each of his children a drum."
"Chinese","He who stays near vermilion gets stained red; he who stays near ink gets stained black."
"Chinese","He who stands still in the mud sticks in it."
"Chinese","He who sees heaven in the water sees the fishes in the trees."
"Chinese","He who seeks revenge should remember to dig two graves."
"Chinese","Heaven has a road, but no one travels it; Hell has no gate but men will dig to get there."
"Chinese","If a thing's worth doing, it's worth doing well."
"Chinese","He who steps aside for someone broadens the way."
"Chinese","I dreamed a thousand new paths. . . I woke and walked my old one."
"Chinese","If heaven drops you a date, it must be received with an open mouth."
"Chinese","If heaven drops a date, open your mouth."
"Chinese","If heaven above lets fall a plum, open your mouth."
"Chinese","If everyone swept the pavement in front of his house, the whole street would be clean."
"Chinese","If cooks quarrel, the roast burns."
"Chinese","If an enemy is annoying you by playing well, consider adopting his strategy."
"Chinese","If a string has one end, then it has another end."
"Chinese","If a son is uneducated, his father is to blame."
"Chinese","If a rat wants to die it bites a cat's tail."
"Chinese","I was angered, for I had no shoes. Then I met a man who had no feet."
"Chinese","I have money, you have money; so we are friends."
"Chinese","I hear and I forget, I see and I remember. I do and I understand."
"Chinese","If at home you receive no visitors, then abroad you will have no host."
"Chinese","Give a dog a tasty name and eat him."
"Chinese","If a man plants melons he will reap melons; if he sows beans, he will reap beans."
"Chinese","If heaven made him, earth can find some use for him."
"Chinese","Give a beggar a bed and he'll repay you with a louse."
"Chinese","If a girl seems as shy as a mouse, you still have to look out for the tiger within her."
"Chinese","If a man becomes powerful even his chicken and his dog go to heaven."
"Chinese","If a man does only what is required of him, he is a slave. If a man does more than is required of him, he is a free man."
"Chinese","If a man fools me once, shame on him. If he fools me twice, shame on me."
"Chinese","Pure gold does not fear the smelter."
"Chinese","Plant the crab-tree where you will it will never bear pippins."
"Chinese","Pleasures are shallow, sorrows deep."
"Chinese","Politeness wins the confidence of princes."
"Chinese","Politics makes strange bedfellows."
"Chinese","Practice no vice because it's trivial; neglect no virtue because it's so."
"Chinese","Present to the eye, present to the mind."
"Chinese","Priests return to the temple, merchants to the shop."
"Chinese","Raise your sail one foot and you get ten feet of wind."
"Chinese","Rare commodities are worth more than good."
"Chinese","Rather once cry your heart out than always sigh."
"Chinese","Plan your year in the spring, your day at dawn."
"Chinese","Rein in the horse at the edge of the cliff."
"Chinese","Patience and the mulberry leaf become a silk robe."
"Chinese","Reshape one's foot to try to fit into a new shoe."
"Chinese","Rich men accumulate money; the poor accumulate years."
"Chinese","Rats know the way of rats."
"Chinese","Paper can't wrap up a fire."
"Chinese","One monk shoulders water by himself; two can still share the labor among them. When it comes to three, they have to go thirsty."
"Chinese","One should be just as careful in choosing one's pleasures as in avoiding calamities."
"Chinese","One step at a time is good walking."
"Chinese","One step at a time."
"Chinese","One's shadow grows larger than life when admired by the light of the moon."
"Chinese","Only he that has traveled the road knows where the holes are deep."
"Chinese","Patience is a plaister for all sores."
"Chinese","Outside noisy, inside empty."
"Chinese","Pick your inn before the dark; get on your road before the dawn."
"Chinese","Parents who are afraid to put their foot down usually have children who step on their toes."
"Chinese","Scholars talk books, butchers talk pigs."
"Chinese","Patience is a bitter plant, but it has sweet fruit."
"Chinese","Rich not gaudy."
"Chinese","Patience is a virtue."
"Chinese","Patience is power; with time and patience the mulberry becomes silk."
"Chinese","Peace and tranquility are a thousand gold pieces."
"Chinese","Out of a dog's mouth will never come ivory tusks."
"Chinese","Teaching others teacheth yourself."
"Chinese","Some roads aren't meant to be travelled alone."
"Chinese","Sorrow is the child of too much joy."
"Chinese","Sour, sweet, bitter, pungent, all must be tasted."
"Chinese","Steal a bell with one's ears covered."
"Chinese","Swiftest horse cannot overtake the word once spoken."
"Chinese","Take a second look; it costs you nothing."
"Chinese","Rule the roost."
"Chinese","Teachers open the door. You enter by yourself."
"Chinese","Small men think they are small; great men never know they are great."
"Chinese","Temptation wrings integrity even as the thumbscrew twists a man's fingers."
"Chinese","Thatch your roof before rainy weather, dig your well before you become parched with thirst."
"Chinese","The beginning of wisdom is to call things by their right names."
"Chinese","The best cure for drunkenness is whilst sober to observe a drunken person."
"Chinese","The best doctors are Dr. Diet, Dr, Quiet, and Dr. Merryman."
"Chinese","The best memory is not so firm as faded ink."
"Chinese","The best soldiers are not warlike."
"Chinese","Talk does not cook rice."
"Chinese","Silly toad: planning a meal of goose!"
"Chinese","Riches: a dream in the night; fame: a gull floating on water."
"Chinese","Rivers and mountains may change; human nature, never."
"Chinese","Rotten wood cannot be carved."
"Chinese","One happiness scatters a thousand sorrows."
"Chinese","Runaway son, a shining jewel; runaway daughter, tarnished."
"Chinese","On entering a country, ask what is forbidden, on entering a village, ask what are the customs, on entering a private house, ask what should not be mentioned."
"Chinese","Schoolmaster, stick to your books; farmer, to your pigs."
"Chinese","So lovers, to their fair one fondly blind, E'en on her ugliness with transport gaze."
"Chinese","Sending charcoal in the snow is better than adding flowers to a brocade."
"Chinese","So long as a man is angry he cannot be in the right."
"Chinese","Sit atop the mountain and watch the tigers fight."
"Chinese","Slander cannot destroy an honest man: when the flood recedes the rock is there."
"Chinese","Slow in word, swift in deed."
"Chinese","Sma' winnings mak a heavy purse."
"Chinese","Small ills are the fountains of most of our groans. Men trip not on mountains, they stumble on stones."
"Chinese","Small is beautiful."
"Chinese","Riches add to the house, virtues to the man."
"Chinese","Seeking fish? Don't dive in the pond; go home and get a net."
"Chinese","Man has a thousand plans, heaven but one."
"Chinese","Married couples tell each other a thousand things without speech."
"Chinese","Love is incompatible with fear."
"Chinese","Make happy those who are near, and those who are far will come."
"Chinese","Make sure you leave some fat for the other side."
"Chinese","Mallet strikes chisel; chisel splits wood."
"Chinese","Man cannot stir one inch without the push of heaven's finger."
"Chinese","Love is blind, friendship closes its eyes."
"Chinese","Man fools himself. He prays for a long life and he fears old age."
"Chinese","Love is blind, and greed insatiable."
"Chinese","Man is heaven and earth in miniature."
"Chinese","Man must be sharpened on man, like knife on stone."
"Chinese","Mankind fears an evil man but heaven does not."
"Chinese","Mankind scorns a virtuous man, but heaven does not."
"Chinese","Many a good face is under a ragged hat."
"Chinese","Many a little make a mickle."
"Chinese","Once on a tiger's back it is hard to alight."
"Chinese","Man concocts a million schemes; god knows but one."
"Chinese","Let him who does not know what war is go to war."
"Chinese","Virtue is not left to stand alone."
"Chinese","Learn to handle a writing-brush and you'll never handle a begging-bowl."
"Chinese","Learning is a treasure that will follow its owner everywhere."
"Chinese","Learning is a weightless treasure you always carry easy."
"Chinese","Learning is better than house and land."
"Chinese","Learning is like rowing upstream: not to advance is to drop back."
"Chinese","Love is blind."
"Chinese","Leave a bit of the tail to whisk off flies."
"Chinese","Married couples who love each other tell each other a thousand things without talking."
"Chinese","Life is partly what we make it, and partly what it is made by the friends whom we choose."
"Chinese","Life isn't all beer and skittles."
"Chinese","Listen to all, plucking a feather from every passing goose, but, follow no one absolutely."
"Chinese","Long roads test the horse, long dealings the friend."
"Chinese","Look for a thing until you find it and you'll not lose your labor."
"Chinese","Looking for fish? Don't climb a tree."
"Chinese","Losing comes of winning money."
"Chinese","Learning is treasure no thief can touch."
"Chinese","Of all meat in the world drink goes down the best."
"Chinese","Many books do not use up words; many words do not use up thoughts."
"Chinese","Not wine . . . men intoxicate themselves; not vice . . . men entice themselves."
"Chinese","O eggs, never fight with stones!"
"Chinese","O man, you who do not live a hundred years, why fret a thousand minutes?"
"Chinese","Of a dead leopard we keep the skin, of man his reputation."
"Chinese","Laws control the lesser man; right conduct controls the greater one."
"Chinese","No wind, no waves."
"Chinese","Large demands on oneself and little demands on others keep resentment at bay."
"Chinese","No mill, no meal."
"Chinese","Of all the thirty-six alternatives, running away is the best."
"Chinese","Often one finds one's destiny just where one hides to avoid it."
"Chinese","The best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago. The second best time is today."
"Chinese","Once bitten by a snake, he is scared all his life at the mere sight of a rope."
"Chinese","One can care little for man, but we need a friend."
"Chinese","One cannot manage too many affairs; like pumpkins in water, one pops up while you try to hold down the other."
"Chinese","One dog barks at something, the rest bark at him."
"Chinese","Of a good beginning cometh a good end."
"Chinese","Never argue with a man who buys ink by the barrel."
"Chinese","Medicine can only cure curable disease, and then not always."
"Chinese","Men fated to be happy need not haste."
"Chinese","Men in the game are blind to what men looking on see clearly."
"Chinese","Men know not all their faults, oxen all their strength."
"Chinese","Misfortune is not that which can be avoided, but that which cannot."
"Chinese","Nature is better than a middling doctor."
"Chinese","No wisdom like silence."
"Chinese","Never answer a letter while you are angry."
"Chinese","One family builds the wall, two families enjoy it."
"Chinese","Never do anything standing that you can do sitting, or anything sitting that you can do lying down."
"Chinese","Never try to catch two frogs with one hand."
"Chinese","Never write a letter while you are angry."
"Chinese","No matter how stout one beam, it cannot support a house."
"Chinese","No matter how tall the mountain, it cannot block out the sun."
"Chinese","No medicines can cure the vulgar man."
"Chinese","No melon-peddler cries: Bitter melons! No wine-dealer says: Sour wine!"
"Chinese","Nature, time and patience are the three great physicians."
"Chinese","What is whispered in your ear is often heard a hundred miles off."
"Chinese","When you bow, bow low."
"Chinese","We all like lamb; each has a different way of cooking it."
"Chinese","We are not so much concerned if you are slow as when you come to a halt."
"Chinese","We can study until old age and still not finish."
"Chinese","We forget even incense in easy times; come hard times, we embrace the Buddha's feet."
"Chinese","Wealth is but dung, useful only when spread."
"Chinese","Water and words are easy to pour but impossible to recover."
"Chinese","Wedlock is a padlock."
"Chinese","Want a thing long enough, and you don't."
"Chinese","What you cannot avoid, welcome."
"Chinese","When eating bamboo sprouts, remember the man who planted them."
"Chinese","When the cat is gone, the mice come out to stretch."
"Chinese","When the mantis hunts the locust, he forgets the shrike that's hunting him."
"Chinese","When the tree dies, the grass underneath withers."
"Chinese","When the tree falls, the shadow flies."
"Chinese","To open a shop is easy, to keep it open is an art."
"Chinese","Weaving a net is better than praying for fish at the edge of the water."
"Chinese","Vicious as a tigress can be, she never eats her own cubs."
"Chinese","Victory has hundred fathers and defeat is an orphan."
"Chinese","To talk much and arrive nowhere is the same as climbing a tree to catch a fish."
"Chinese","To understand your parents' love bear your own children."
"Chinese","To violate the law is the same crime in the emperor as in the subject."
"Chinese","Transgressions should never be forgiven a third time."
"Chinese","Two barrels of tears will not heal a bruise."
"Chinese","Water that has reached its level does not flow."
"Chinese","Use power to curb power."
"Chinese","When you fall into a pit, you either die or get out."
"Chinese","Virtue becomes a wife; beauty becomes a concubine."
"Chinese","Virtue never dwells alone, it always has neighbors."
"Chinese","Virtue practiced to be seen is not real virtue; vice which fears to be seen is real vice."
"Chinese","Virtue: climbing a hill; vice: running down."
"Chinese","Virtuous for ten years is still not enough; evil for one day is too much already."
"Chinese","Wait long, strike fast."
"Chinese","Waiting for a rabbit to hit upon a tree and be killed in order to catch it."
"Chinese","Unplowed fields make hollow bellies; unread books make hollow minds."
"Chinese","You must have crossed the river before you may tell the crocodile he has bad breath."
"Chinese","When the tree waves, wind is stirring."
"Chinese","You can't fare well, but you must cry roast meat."
"Chinese","You can't fill your belly painting pictures of bread."
"Chinese","You cannot draw white cloth from a dying vat."
"Chinese","You cannot hook trout? Try digging clams."
"Chinese","You cannot lose what you never had."
"Chinese","You can't clap with one hand only."
"Chinese","You cannot propel yourself forward by patting yourself on the back."
"Chinese","You can't catch a cub without going into the tiger's den."
"Chinese","You must scale the mountains if you would view the plain."
"Chinese","You think you've lost your horse? Who knows, he may bring a whole herd back to you someday."
"Chinese","You want no one to know it? Then don't do it."
"Chinese","You won't help shoots grow by pulling them up higher."
"Chinese","Your fingers can't be of the same length."
"Chinese","Know thyself to know others, for heart beats like heart."
"Chinese","One generation plants the trees, another gets the shade."
"Chinese","You cannot prevent the birds of sorrow from flying over your head, but you can prevent them from building nests in your hair."
"Chinese","Who rides a tiger cannot dismount."
"Chinese","When you have only two dollars left in the world, buy a loaf of bread with one, and a rose with the other."
"Chinese","When you have only two pennies left in the world, buy a loaf of bread with one, and a lily with the other."
"Chinese","When you say one thing, the clever person understands three."
"Chinese","When you want to test the depths of a stream, don't use both feet."
"Chinese","When your horse in on the brink of a precipice, it is too late to pull the reins."
"Chinese","Whenever the water rises, the boat will rise too."
"Chinese","You can't expect both ends of a sugar cane to be as sweet."
"Chinese","Who is not satisfied with himself will grow; who is not sure of his own correctness will learn many things."
"Chinese","To meet an old friend in a distant country is like the delight of rain after a long drought."
"Chinese","Who teaches me for a day is my father for a lifetime."
"Chinese","With money one may command devils; without it, one cannot even summon a man."
"Chinese","With time and patience the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown."
"Chinese","Without rice, even the cleverest housewife cannot cook."
"Chinese","Yellow gold is plentiful compared to white-haired friends."
"Chinese","You burn incense before the god, and then topple him."
"Chinese","You buy land, you buy stones; you buy meat, you buy bones."
"Chinese","Where a chest lieth open, a righteous man may sin."
"Chinese","The man who removes a mountain begins by carrying away small stones."
"Chinese","The one who understands does not speak, the one who speaks does not understand."
"Chinese","The journey of a thousand miles begins with one step."
"Chinese","The less power a man has, the more he likes to use it."
"Chinese","The loftiest towers rise from the ground."
"Chinese","The lone sheep is in danger of the wolf."
"Chinese","The longer the night lasts, the more our dreams will be."
"Chinese","The hardest step is over the threshold."
"Chinese","The man who does not learn is dark, like one walking in the night."
"Chinese","The harder you fall, the higher you bounce."
"Chinese","The man who strikes first admits that his ideas have given out."
"Chinese","The man who wakes up and finds himself famous hasn't been asleep."
"Chinese","The man will surely fail, who dares delay, And lose to-morrow that has lost to-day."
"Chinese","The net of heaven is large and wide, but it lets nothing through."
"Chinese","The older the ginger, the more it bites."
"Chinese","The one who first resorts to violence shows that he has no more arguments."
"Chinese","To persecute the unfortunate is like throwing stones on one fallen into a well."
"Chinese","The man who comes with a talk about others has himself an ax to grind."
"Chinese","The evening crowns the days."
"Chinese","The broad-minded see the truth in different religions; the narrow-minded see only the differences."
"Chinese","The careful foot can walk anywhere."
"Chinese","The court official in one life has seven rebirths as a beggar."
"Chinese","The day your horse dies and your money's lost, your relatives change to strangers."
"Chinese","The delicacy of the feast is the learned guest."
"Chinese","The devil can quote Scripture for his own ends."
"Chinese","The house with an old grandparent harbors a jewel."
"Chinese","The error of one moment becomes the sorrow of a whole life."
"Chinese","The palest ink is better than the best memory."
"Chinese","The father in praising the son extols himself."
"Chinese","The fire you kindle for your enemy often burns yourself more than him."
"Chinese","The first half of the night, think of your own faults; the second half, the faults of others."
"Chinese","The first hen that cackles is the one that laid the egg."
"Chinese","The gem cannot be polished without friction, nor a man perfected without trials."
"Chinese","The great question is not whether you have failed, but whether you are content with failure."
"Chinese","The happiness in your pocket, don't spend it all."
"Chinese","The emperor is rich, but he cannot buy one extra year."
"Chinese","Though you live near a forest, do not waste firewood."
"Chinese","The one who plants the tree is not the one who will enjoy its shade."
"Chinese","There belongs more than whistling to going to plough."
"Chinese","There is no economy in going to bed early to save candles if the result is twins."
"Chinese","Think of your own faults the first part of the night when you are awake, and the faults of others the latter part of the night when you are asleep."
"Chinese","Those who despise money will eventually sponge on their friends."
"Chinese","Those who do not study are only cattle dressed up in men's clothes."
"Chinese","There are many paths to the top of the mountain, but the view is always the same."
"Chinese","Those who hear not the music think the dancers mad."
"Chinese","The Yangtze never runs backwards; man recaptures not his youth."
"Chinese","To attract good fortune, spend a new coin on an old friend, share an old pleasure with a new friend, and lift up the heart of a true friend by writing his name on the wings of a dragon."
"Chinese","To believe in one's dreams is to spend all of one's life asleep."
"Chinese","To forget one's ancestor's is to be a brook without a source, a tree without root."
"Chinese","To get through the hardest journey we need take only one step at a time, but we must keep on stepping."
"Chinese","To go beyond is as bad as to fall short."
"Chinese","To know the road ahead, ask those coming back."
"Chinese","To listen well is as powerful a means of influence as to talk well and is as essential to all true conversation."
"Chinese","Those who have free seats at a play hiss first."
"Chinese","The rich man plans for tomorrow, the poor man for today."
"Chinese","The path of duty lies in what is near at hand, but men seek for it in what is remote."
"Chinese","The pen can kill a man; no knife is needed."
"Chinese","The pen of the tongue should be dipped in the ink of the heart."
"Chinese","The peony is beautiful, yet it is supported by a stalk."
"Chinese","The pine stays green in winter, wisdom in hardship."
"Chinese","The pitcher doth not go so often to the well, but it comes home broken at last."
"Chinese","There are two sides to every question."
"Chinese","The remedy for love is--land between."
"Chinese","The black dog gets the food; the white dog gets the blame."
"Chinese","The rose has thorns only for those who would gather it."
"Chinese","The saving man becomes the free man."
"Chinese","The sheep has no choice when in the jaws of the wolf."
"Chinese","The water that bears the ship is the same that engulfs it."
"Chinese","The way of a slothful man is as a hedge of thorns."
"Chinese","The weasel comes to say ""Happy New Year!"" to the chickens."
"Chinese","The woman who tells her age is either too young to have anything to lose or too old to have anything to gain."
"Chinese","The remedy for dirt is soap and water. The remedy for dying is living."
"Chinese","Better do it than wish it done."
"Chinese","Cheat the earth and the earth will cheat you."
"Chinese","Better a diamond with a flaw than a pebble without."
"Chinese","Better a dinner of herbs than a stalled ox where hate is."
"Chinese","Better a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith."
"Chinese","Better be kind at home than burn incense in a far place."
"Chinese","Better be too credulous than too skeptical."
"Chinese","Begin with an error of an inch and end by being a thousand miles off the mark."
"Chinese","Better do a kindness near home than go far to burn incense."
"Chinese","Before you beat a dog, find out who its master is."
"Chinese","Better go than send."
"Chinese","Better go to heaven in rags than to hell in embroidery."
"Chinese","Better the cottage where one is merry than the palace where one weeps."
"Chinese","Better the devil you know than the devil you don't."
"Chinese","Better to do a kindness near home than go far away to burn incense."
"Chinese","Careless rat chewing on a cat's tail: beware lightning!"
"Chinese","Don't stand by the water and long for fish; go home and weave a net."
"Chinese","Better die ten years early than live ten years poor."
"Chinese","Be in readiness for favorable winds."
"Chinese","All things change, and we change with them. [Lat., Omnia mutantur, nos et mutamur in illis.]"
"Chinese","Alms given openly will be rewarded in secret."
"Chinese","Among ten matchmakers only nine will lie."
"Chinese","An ambassador bears no blame."
"Chinese","An ignorant doctor is no better than a murderer."
"Chinese","An inch of time is an inch of gold, but you can't buy that inch of time with an inch of gold."
"Chinese","Behind an able man there are always other able men."
"Chinese","Avoid suspicion: when you're walking through your neighbor's melon patch, don't tie your shoe."
"Chinese","Clumsy birds have need of early flight."
"Chinese","Be not afraid of growing slowly, be afraid only of standing still."
"Chinese","Be not disturbed at being misunderstood; be disturbed at not understanding."
"Chinese","Be on a horse when you go in search of a better one."
"Chinese","Be resolved and the thing is done."
"Chinese","Beat your drum inside the house to spare the neighbors."
"Chinese","Beat your gong and sell your candles."
"Chinese","Because men do not like the cold, Heaven does not cause winter to cease."
"Chinese","An old friend met in a far country is like rain after drought."
"Chinese","Do not tear down the east wall to repair the west."
"Chinese","Cheap things are not good, good things are not cheap."
"Chinese","Devil take the hindmost."
"Chinese","Dig a well before you are thirsty."
"Chinese","Do not all you can; spend not all you have; believe not all you hear; and tell not all you know."
"Chinese","Do not allow the sheep to die for a halfpenny of tar."
"Chinese","Do not answer a fool according to his folly, or you will be like him yourself."
"Chinese","Despise not a small wound or a poor kinsman."
"Chinese","Do not insult the crocodile until you've crossed the river."
"Chinese","Despise learning and make everyone pay for your ignorance."
"Chinese","Do not use a hatchet to remove a fly from your friend's forehead."
"Chinese","Dogs do not dislike poor families."
"Chinese","Dogs have so many friends because they wag their tails, not their tongues."
"Chinese","Don't build a new ship out of old wood."
"Chinese","Don't consider your reputation and you may do anything you like."
"Chinese","Don't count your chickens before they are hatched."
"Chinese","Don't cross the bridge until you come to it."
"Chinese","Do not employ handsome servants."
"Chinese","Cursed cows have short horns."
"Chinese","Conquerors are kings; the beaten are bandits."
"Chinese","Corner a dog in a dead-end street and it will turn and bite."
"Chinese","Corporations have neither bodies to be punished nor souls to be damned."
"Chinese","Count not what is lost but what is left."
"Chinese","Covet wealth, and want it; don't, and luck will grant it."
"Chinese","Covetous men's chests are rich, not they."
"Chinese","Deviate an inch, lose a thousand miles."
"Chinese","Curse your wife at evening, sleep alone at night."
"Chinese","All cats love fish but fear to wet their paws."
"Chinese","Customers are jade; merchandise is grass."
"Chinese","Dangerous enemies will meet again in narrow streets."
"Chinese","Dead songbirds make a sad meal."
"Chinese","Deal with the faults of others as gently as with your own."
"Chinese","Deer-hunter, waste not your arrow on the hare."
"Chinese","Defeat isn't bitter if you don't swallow it."
"Chinese","Defer not till to-morrow what may be done to-day."
"Chinese","Crows everywhere are equally black."
"Chinese","A flea on top of a bald head."
"Chinese","All things at first appear difficult."
"Chinese","A crisis is an opportunity riding the dangerous wind."
"Chinese","A day of sorrow is longer than a month of joy."
"Chinese","A dog in desperation will leap over a wall."
"Chinese","A dog won't forsake his master because of poverty; a son never deserts his mother because of her homely appearance."
"Chinese","A fall into a ditch makes you wiser."
"Chinese","A courageous foe is better than a cowardly friend."
"Chinese","A false report rides post."
"Chinese","A country where flowers are priced so as to make them a luxury has yet to learn the first principles of civilization."
"Chinese","A flower cannot blossom without sunshine nor a garden without love."
"Chinese","A fly before his own eye is bigger than an elephant in the next field."
"Chinese","A frog in a well-shaft seeing the sky."
"Chinese","A fu purse never lacks freends."
"Chinese","A fu' sack will tak a clout o' the side."
"Chinese","A gem is not polished without rubbing, nor a man made perfect without trials."
"Chinese","A good dog does not block the road."
"Chinese","A fallen lighthouse is more dangerous than a reef."
"Chinese","A book holds a house of gold."
"Chinese","A bad word whispered will echo a hundred miles."
"Chinese","A bad worker quarrels with his tools."
"Chinese","A bad workman blames his tools."
"Chinese","A bar of iron continually ground becomes a needle."
"Chinese","A beautiful bird is the only kind we cage."
"Chinese","A bird can roost but on one branch, a mouse can drink not more than its fill from a river."
"Chinese","A courtesy much entreated is half recompensed."
"Chinese","A bit of fragrance always clings to the hand that gives you roses."
"Chinese","A hundred men may make an encampment, but it takes a woman to make a home."
"Chinese","A bride received into the home is like a horse that you have just bought; you break her in by constantly mounting her and continually beating her."
"Chinese","A chicken is hatched even from such a well-sealed thing as an egg."
"Chinese","A child's life is like a piece of paper on which every passerby leaves a mark."
"Chinese","A clever person turns great troubles into little ones and little ones into none at all."
"Chinese","A client twixt his attorney and counselor is like a goose twixt two foxes."
"Chinese","A closed mind is like a closed book; just a block of wood."
"Chinese","A cloth is not woven from a single thread."
"Chinese","A bird does not sing because it has an answer. It sings because it has a song."
"Chinese","A wicked companion invites us all to hell."
"Chinese","A single untried popular remedy often throws the scientific doctor into hysterics."
"Chinese","A sly rabbit will have three openings to its den."
"Chinese","A smile will gain you ten more years of life."
"Chinese","A thousand cups of wine do not suffice when true friends meet, but half a sentence is too much when there is no meeting of minds."
"Chinese","A thousand pounds and a bottle of hay are all one at domesday."
"Chinese","A vacant mind is open to all suggestions, as a hollow mountain returns all sounds."
"Chinese","A hasty man drinks his tea with a fork."
"Chinese","A wicked book cannot repent."
"Chinese","A rumour goes in one ear and out many mouths."
"Chinese","A wise man makes his own decisions, an ignorant man follows public opinion."
"Chinese","A young branch takes on all the bends that one gives it."
"Chinese","A young doctor makes a full graveyard."
"Chinese","Abroad we judge the dress; at home we judge the man."
"Chinese","Add legs to the snake after you have finished drawing it."
"Chinese","After three days without reading, talk becomes flavorless."
"Chinese","Do not have each foot on a different boat."
"Chinese","A whitewashed crow soon shows black again."
"Chinese","A man's discontent is his worst evil."
"Chinese","All people are your relatives, therefore expect only trouble from them."
"Chinese","A jade stone is useless before it is processed; a man is good-for-nothing until he is educated."
"Chinese","A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step."
"Chinese","A maker of idols is never an idolater."
"Chinese","A man must despise himself before others will."
"Chinese","A man must make himself despicable before he is despised by others."
"Chinese","A man must plough with such oxen as he hath."
"Chinese","A single conversation with a wise man is better than ten years of study."
"Chinese","A man's conversation is the mirror of his thoughts."
"Chinese","A single beam cannot support a great house."
"Chinese","A nation's treasure: scholars."
"Chinese","A person who say it cannot be done should not interrupt the man doing it."
"Chinese","A person whose heart is not content is like a snake which tries to swallow an elephant."
"Chinese","A person with a bad name is already half-hanged."
"Chinese","A red-nosed man may be a teetotaler, but will find no one to believe it."
"Chinese","A reed before the wind lives on, while mighty oaks do fall."
"Chinese","A hasty man never wants woe."
"Chinese","A man need never revenge himself; the body of his enemy will be brought to his own door."
"Chinese","If what we see is doubtful, how can we believe what is spoken behind the back."
"Chinese","He that has no money might as well be buried in a rice tub with his mouth sewn up."
"Chinese","If an enemy is annoying you by playing well, consider adopting his strategy."
"Chinese","If heaven made him, earth can find some use for him."
"Chinese","If his legs fail him, he fights on his knees."
"Chinese","If I keep a green bough in my heart, the singing bird will come."
"Chinese","If there is a strong general, there will be no weak soldiers."
"Chinese","If a string has one end, then it has another end."
"Chinese","If there is beauty in character, there will be harmony in the home. If there is harmony in the home, there will be order in the nation. If there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world."
"Chinese","If a son is uneducated, his father is to blame."
"Chinese","If wishes were horses, beggars would ride."
"Chinese","If you always give, you will always have."
"Chinese","If you are patient in a moment of anger, you will escape a hundred days of sorrow."
"Chinese","If you are planning for a year, sow rice; if you are planning for a decade, plant trees; if you are planning for a lifetime, educate people."
"Chinese","If you are standing upright, don't worry if your shadow is crooked."
"Chinese","If you beat spice it will smell the sweeter."
"Chinese","If you can't change your fate, change your attitude."
"Chinese","If there is a wave there must be a wind."
"Chinese","He who hurries cannot walk with dignity."
"Chinese","He that has no silver in his purse, should have silver on his tongue."
"Chinese","He that has not bread to spare should not keep a dog."
"Chinese","He who asks a question is a fool for five minutes; he who does not ask a question remains a fool forever."
"Chinese","He who asks is a fool for five minutes, but he who does not ask remains a fool forever."
"Chinese","He who can predict winning numbers should not set off fire crackers."
"Chinese","He who cannot agree with his enemies is controlled by them."
"Chinese","If a thing's worth doing, it's worth doing well."
"Chinese","Don't waste good iron for nails or good men for soldiers."
"Chinese","If you get up one more time than you fall you will make it through."
"Chinese","Do not anxiously hope for that which is not yet come; do not vainly regret what is already past."
"Chinese","He who seeks revenge should remember to dig two graves."
"Chinese","Hold back some goods for a thousand days and you will be sure to sell at a profit."
"Chinese","Honey in his mouth, knives in his heart."
"Chinese","How can you expect to find ivory in a dog's mouth?"
"Chinese","How can you put out a fire set on a cart-load of firewood with only a cup of water."
"Chinese","I dreamed a thousand new paths. I woke and walked my old one."
"Chinese","He who carves the Buddha never worships him."
"Chinese","Jam tomorrow and jam yesterday, but never jam today."
"Chinese","It is better to be entirely without a book than to believe it entirely."
"Chinese","It is easier to know how to do than it is to do."
"Chinese","It is not economical to go to bed early to save the candles if the result is twins."
"Chinese","It is the beautiful bird which gets caged."
"Chinese","It takes little effort to watch a man carry a load."
"Chinese","It's as difficult to be rich without bragging as it is to be poor without complaining."
"Chinese","If you don't scale the mountain, you can't view the plain."
"Chinese","Jade and men, both are sharpened by bitter tools."
"Chinese","In the midst of great joy do not promise to give a man anything; in the midst of great anger do not answer a man's letter."
"Chinese","Judge not the horse by his saddle."
"Chinese","Just as tall trees are known by their shadows, so are good men known by their enemies."
"Chinese","Just scales and full measure injure no man."
"Chinese","Keep your broken arm inside your sleeve."
"Chinese","Keep your chin up."
"Chinese","Kill a chicken before a monkey."
"Chinese","Kill one to warn a hundred."
"Chinese","It's your own lantern; don't poke holes in the paper."
"Chinese","Illness comes in by mouth; ills come out by it."
"Chinese","He who could foresee affairs three days in advance would be rich for thousands of years."
"Chinese","If you have never done anything evil, you should not be worrying about devils knocking at your door."
"Chinese","If you have two loaves of bread, sell one and buy a lily."
"Chinese","If you must play, decide on three things at the start: the rules of the game, the stakes, and the quitting time."
"Chinese","If you pay peanuts, you get monkeys."
"Chinese","If you see in your wine the reflection of a person not in your range of vision, don't drink it."
"Chinese","If you share a man's wealth, try to lessen his misfortune."
"Chinese","Insects do not nest in a busy door-hinge."
"Chinese","If you want an audience, start a fight."
"Chinese","In the presence of princes the cleverest jester is mute."
"Chinese","In every family's cooking pot is one black spot."
"Chinese","In his decision the judge with seven reasons gives only one in court."
"Chinese","In reviling, it is not necessary to prepare a preliminary draft."
"Chinese","In shallow holes moles make fools of dragons."
"Chinese","In the broken nest there are no whole eggs."
"Chinese","In the coldest flint there is hot fire."
"Chinese","If you don't speculate, you can't accumulate."
"Chinese","If you suspect a man, don't employ him, and if you employ him, don't suspect him."
"Chinese","Far-fetched and dear-bought is good for ladies."
"Chinese","Forget injuries, never forget kindnesses."
"Chinese","Everyone speaks well of the bridge which carries him over."
"Chinese","Everyone stretches his legs according to the length of his coverlet."
"Chinese","Exaggeration is to paint a snake and add legs."
"Chinese","He who sacrifices his conscience to ambition burns a picture to obtain the ashes."
"Chinese","Failing to plan is planning to fail."
"Chinese","Everyone rakes the fire under his own pot."
"Chinese","Far waters cannot quench near fires."
"Chinese","Everyone pushes a falling fence."
"Chinese","Farewell and be hanged; friends must part!"
"Chinese","Fight a wolf with a flex stalk."
"Chinese","Fight fire with fire."
"Chinese","Flowers leave a part of their fragrance in the hands that bestow them."
"Chinese","Flowing water never goes bad; our door hubs never gather termites."
"Chinese","For the sake of one good action, a hundred evil ones should be forgotten."
"Chinese","Forethought is easy, repentance hard."
"Chinese","One joy shatters a hundred griefs."
"Chinese","Easy to know men's faces, not their hearts."
"Chinese","Don't waste too many stones on one bird."
"Chinese","Donkey's lips don't fit onto a horse's mouth."
"Chinese","Dream different dreams while on the same bed."
"Chinese","Dream of a funeral and you hear of a marriage."
"Chinese","Easier to bend the body than the will."
"Chinese","Easier to rule a nation than a son."
"Chinese","Everyone should carefully observe which way his heart draws him, and then choose that way with all his strength."
"Chinese","Easy to keep the castle that was never besieged."
"Chinese","Falling hurts least those who fly low."
"Chinese","Easy to run downhill, much puffing to run up."
"Chinese","Empty the clear path to heaven, crowded the dark road to hell."
"Chinese","Enjoy yourself. It's later than you think."
"Chinese","Enough shovels of earth make a mountain, enough pails of water a river."
"Chinese","Enough's as good as a feast."
"Chinese","Even a hare will bite when it is cornered."
"Chinese","Every day cannot be a feast of lanterns."
"Chinese","Easy to believe in heaven's law, but so hard to keep."
"Chinese","Hatred corrodes the vessel in which it is stored."
"Chinese","Grass fears the frost, frost fears the sun."
"Chinese","Great boast, small roast."
"Chinese","Great business is good; to sit and sip this glass is better."
"Chinese","Great cry and little wool, as the fellow said when he sheared his hogs."
"Chinese","Great souls have wills; feeble ones have only wishes."
"Chinese","Habits are cobwebs at first, cables at last."
"Chinese","Govern yourself and you can govern the world."
"Chinese","Forget the favors you have given; remember those received."
"Chinese","Happy people never count hours as they pass."
"Chinese","Fail to steal the chicken while it ate up your bait grain."
"Chinese","Have but few friends though much acquaintance."
"Chinese","He comes with incense in one hand, in the other a spear."
"Chinese","He has too many lice to feel an itch."
"Chinese","He hath lived ill that knows not how to die well."
"Chinese","Kill the chicken to frighten the monkey."
"Chinese","He painted a tiger, but it turned out a dog."
"Chinese","Happiness is like a sunbeam, which the least shadow intercepts, while adversity is often as the rain of spring."
"Chinese","Have a mouth as sharp as a dagger, but a heart as soft as tofu."
"Chinese","Four horses cannot overtake the tongue."
"Chinese","Four things come not back: the spoken word, the spent arrow, the past life, and the neglected opportunity."
"Chinese","Friend, do not try to borrow combs from shaven monks."
"Chinese","From the lowly perspective of a dog's eyes, everyone looks short."
"Chinese","Garden flowers larger, field flowers stronger."
"Chinese","Garlands are not for every brow."
"Chinese","Govern a family as you would cook a small fish--very gently."
"Chinese","Girls marry to please parents, widows to please themselves."
"Chinese","Girls will be girls."
"Chinese","Fortune and flowers do not last forever."
"Chinese","Give a beggar a bed and he'll repay you with a louse."
"Chinese","Going beyond is as bad as falling short."
"Chinese","Gold and silver are mingled with dirt, till avarice parted them."
"Chinese","Gold has its price; learning is beyond price."
"Chinese","Gold is tested by fire, man by gold."
"Chinese","Good fortune may forebode bad luck, which may in turn disguise good fortune."
"Chinese","Get the coffin ready and watch the man mend."
"Chinese, Dutch","What the eye sees not, the heart craves not."
"Chinese, Dutch, French, German, Portuguese","Walls have ears."
"Chinese, Spanish","Do not talk Arabic in the house of a Moor."
"Chippewa","It is good to tell one's heart."
"Colombian","He who must die, must die in the dark, even though he sells candles."
"Colombian","Who is always sad, does not even have fun when drunk."
"Colombian","See and believe, and in order not to make a mistake, touch."
"Colombian","He who overcomes his passions overcomes his greatest enemies."
"Colombian","When force is imposed, the law is a joke."
"Colombian","To love and be wise is impossible."
"Colombian","There is no better friend than a burden."
"Colombian","The person who recognizes his major mistakes is on the road to wisdom."
"Colombian","The person who gives away his belongings will slowly become a beggar."
"Colombian","Take the bull by the horns and the man at his word."
"Colombian","Suit the behavior to the occasion."
"Colombian","It's better to be the pot than the lid."
"Colombian","He who shows a passion tells his enemy where he may hit him."
"Colombian","He who must die, must die in the dark, even though he sells candles."
"Colombian","Clean hands offend no one."
"Colombian","Better to beg forgiveness than to ask permission."
"Colombian","All fear has much imagination and little talent."
"Colombian","A lame man always speaks when it's time to run."
"Colombian","Instruction in youth is like engraving in stones."
"Colombian","Poverty does not destroy virtue nor wealth bestow it."
"Colombian","He who must die, must die in the dark, even though he sells candles."
"Colonial","You will always be lucky if you know how to make friends with strange cats."
"Colonial","An arrogant bug is a cocky roach."
"Colonial","From A to Izzard."
"Colonial","In guns we trust."
"Colonial","Let it be obeyed but not enforced."
"Columbian","Instruction in youth is like engraving in stone."
"Comanche","All who have died are equal."
"Conastoga","Treachery darkens the chain of friendship, but truth makes it brighter than ever."
"Conestoga","Treachery darkens the chain of friendship, but truth makes it brighter than ever."
"Confucian","A journey of a thousand li begins with a single step."
"Confucian","It doesn't matter how slowly you go as long as you don't stop."
"Confucian","You are you and I am I."
"Confucian","Who depends on another man's table often dines late."
"Confucian","When a thing is done, advice comes too late."
"Confucian","Using writings to form a community."
"Confucian","Train equally the mind and body."
"Confucian","Three things demonstrate a lack of filial piety."
"Confucian","The feeling of commiseration is the feeling of humanity; the feeling of shame and dislike is the beginning of righteousness; the feeling of deference and compliance is the beginning of propriety; and the feeling of right and wrong is the beginning of wisdom. Men have these Four Beginnings just as they have their four limbs."
"Confucian","That which is benevolent is invincible."
"Confucian","If to-day will not, to-morrow may."
"Confucian","If thy strength will serve, go forward in the ranks; if not, stand still."
"Confucian","If there is righteousness in the heart, there will be beauty in the character. If there is beauty in the character, there will be harmony in the home. If there is harmony in the home, there will be order in the nation. If there is order in the nation, there will be peace in the world."
"Confucian","I hear and I forget. I see and I remember. I do and I understand."
"Confucian","He who counsels himself, counsels a fool."
"Confucian","Be not ashamed of mistakes and thus make them crimes."
"Confucian","After all I have no nationality and am not anxious to claim any. Individuality is more than nationality."
"Confucian","A picture is worth a thousand words."
"Confucian","If two ride on a horse, one must ride behind."
"Confucian","Be not ashamed of mistakes and thus make them crimes."
"Confucian","If thy strength will serve, go forward in the ranks; if not, stand still."
"Confucian","If to-day will not, to-morrow may."
"Confucian","If two ride on a horse, one must ride behind."
"Confucius","When anger rises, think of the consequences."
"Congo","If the needle doesn't pass, the thread doesn't follow."
"Congo","You are beautiful; but learn to work, for you cannot eat your beauty."
"Congo","Where there is no shame, there is no honor."
"Congo","Pride only goes the length one can spit."
"Congo","The teeth are smiling, but is the heart?"
"Congolese","The flesh of a young animal tastes flat."
"Congolese","The portion that a man keeps for himself is usually not the smallest."
"Congolese","The nuts from a palm tree don't fall without dragging a few leaves with it."
"Congolese","The mother-in-law shows you her thighs without shame, you are the embarrassed one."
"Congolese","The iron never takes advice from the hammer."
"Congolese","The impotent man does not eat spicy foods."
"Congolese","The fly has no pity for the thin man."
"Congolese","The absent are always in the wrong."
"Congolese","Sleep is the cousin of death."
"Congolese","Pride goes only as far as one can spit."
"Congolese","Prepare yourself for when the water comes up to your knees."
"Congolese","One knife will not cut another knife; one cheat will not cheat another cheat."
"Congolese","The snake and the crab don't sleep in the same hole."
"Congolese","No matter how long the night, the day is sure to come."
"Congolese","Two birds disputed about a kernel, when a third swooped down and carried it off."
"Congolese","One day of hunger is not starvation."
"Congolese","Who sits down is a cripple."
"Congolese","You inherit from the dead, not from the sick."
"Congolese","You do not teach the paths of the forest to an old gorilla."
"Congolese","Wood may remain ten years in the water, but it will never become a crocodile."
"Congolese","Without war there can be no peace."
"Congolese","When the bee comes to your house, let her have beer; you may want to visit the bee's house some day."
"Congolese","Those who inherit fortunes are frequently more of a problem than those who made them."
"Congolese","War ends nothing."
"Congolese","The son shoots a leopard; the father is proud."
"Congolese","To love someone who does not love you, is like shaking a tree to make the dew drops fall."
"Congolese","No matter how hard you throw a dead fish in the water, it still won't swim."
"Congolese","The worm that gnaws on the bean is the one inside the bean."
"Congolese","The white man never forgets Europe."
"Congolese","The watched chicken never lays."
"Congolese","The teeth are smiling, but is the heart?"
"Congolese","What is said over the dead lion's body, could not be said to him alive."
"Congolese","A pretty basket does not prevent worries."
"Congolese","Don't buy a boat that is under water."
"Congolese","Do not dispose of the monkey's tail before he is dead."
"Congolese","Death does not sound a trumpet."
"Congolese","Children are the reward of life."
"Congolese","Being well dressed does not prevent one from being poor."
"Congolese","Don't buy the salt if you haven't licked it yet."
"Congolese","A pretty face and fine clothes do not make character."
"Congolese","An idiot will cross an ox with an elephant."
"Congolese","A little subtleness is better than a lot of force."
"Congolese","A house with two keys is worth nothing."
"Congolese","A cat goes to a monastery, but she still remains a cat."
"Congolese","A bald-headed man will not grow hair by getting excited."
"Congolese","Woe to the high spirited bride whose mother-in-law is still alive."
"Congolese","No matter how full the river, it still wants to swell more."
"Congolese","A single bracelet does not jingle."
"Congolese","Love is like a baby: it needs to be treated tenderly."
"Congolese","Mothers-in-law are hard of hearing."
"Congolese","Man is like palm-wine: when young, sweet but without strength; in old age, strong but harsh."
"Congolese","Lower your head modestly while passing, and you will harvest bananas."
"Congolese","A priest sees people at their best, a lawyer at their worst, but a doctor sees them as they really are."
"Congolese","Lovers do not hide their nakedness."
"Congolese","Don't cut off the monkey's tail before it is dead."
"Congolese","Little by little grow the bananas."
"Congolese","Let him speak who has seen with his eyes."
"Congolese","If you tell people to live together, you tell them to quarrel."
"Congolese","Drink beer, think beer."
"Congolese","If you are too modest you will go hungry."
"Congolese","I own a cow in heaven, but I cannot drink her milk."
"Congolese","He who is free of faults, will never die."
"Congolese","He who doesn't like chattering women must stay a bachelor."
"Congolese","Friendship does not need pepper to cry."
"Congolese","Great events may stem from words of no importance."
"Congolese","A priest sees people at their best, a lawyer at their worst, but a doctor sees them as they really are."
"Congolese","What is said over the dead lion's body could not be said to him alive."
"Congolese","No matter how hard you throw a dead fish in the water, it still won't swim."
"Congolese","No matter how full the river, it still wants to grow."
"Congolese","Lower your head modestly while passing, and you will harvest bananas."
"Congolese","Death does not sound a trumpet."
"Congolese","A pretty face and fine clothes do not make character."
"Congolese","A pretty basket does not prevent worries."
"Congolese","A cat goes to a monastery, but she still remains a cat."
"Congolese","Little by little grow the bananas."
"Congolese, French","The absent are always in the wrong."
"Continental","What is difficult to endure is sweet to recall."
"Corsican","Pigs are kissing: a year of acorns."
"Corsican","March, mean, son of an ogre! You've taken all my suckling lambs and left only one weaned lamb. - Oh April, my brother, give me two days, because alone, I don't have them."
"Corsican","Misery and poverty are two sisters; discord is their first cousin."
"Corsican","Long live the headdress, because hats come and go."
"Corsican","Lord, make us shepherds in spring and swineherds in winter."
"Corsican","Lorsque tu arrives dans un autre pays, conforme-toi aux usages que tu y trouve."
"Corsican","Love is blind."
"Corsican","Lovers and lords want only to be alone together."
"Corsican","Man proposes, God disposes."
"Corsican","Little by little the measure is filled."
"Corsican","March sun ages women."
"Corsican","Linden, I want you."
"Corsican","May God save us from good weather in January."
"Corsican","May problems with neighbors last only as long as snow in March."
"Corsican","Problems are in the bag."
"Corsican","Me today, you tomorrow."
"Corsican","Pulled too far, a rope ends up breaking."
"Corsican","Merchandise from afar is lost en route."
"Corsican","Mint flower: the more you say ""go away"", the closer it comes."
"Corsican","March cold reaches even bull's horns."
"Corsican","Keep the best log for May."
"Corsican","In February, don't postpone a trip."
"Corsican","In Frassetu and Tavera, don't say ?cuppa,? because they'll punch you in the face."
"Corsican","In good companionship, the monk took a wife."
"Corsican","In terra ch? t? vai, f? usu ch? t? trovi."
"Corsican","In the place a donkey dies, fur remains."
"Corsican","In war, lies are as abundant as dirt."
"Corsican","It takes more than one blow to fell a tree."
"Corsican","Little children, little problems; big children, big problems."
"Corsican","It's better to be alone than to have bad companions."
"Corsican","Men die, but writing remains."
"Corsican","Known by three; Known by the king."
"Corsican","Le cycle de la Lune est compris entre 29 et 30 jours."
"Corsican","Leave the spool to the artisan."
"Corsican","Let not your left hand see what your right hand does."
"Corsican","Lies have twisted limbs."
"Corsican","Life is just as long as the time it takes for someone to pass by a window."
"Corsican","Like grape, like bud. Like father, like son."
"Corsican","It's as far from my house as from yours."
"Corsican","Nothing is blacker than the pan."
"Corsican","Olive flowers in June, olives in the hand."
"Corsican","No leaf shudders outside the will of God."
"Corsican","One who scorns is one who buys."
"Corsican","Only the spoon knows the pot's sorrows."
"Corsican","No matter who has died, I want to sing. But when I die, anyone can sing."
"Corsican","No one is born and no one dies before their time."
"Corsican","Parents are teeth."
"Corsican","Not every day is a celebration in ?mpaza."
"Corsican","Our proverbs are sacred and correct."
"Corsican","Nothing ventured, nothing gained."
"Corsican","Mistakes are made even by priests at the altar."
"Corsican","On April 8th, the cuckoo's call must be heard. If it isn't, either the cuckoo is dead or is going to die."
"Corsican","Once a horse is old, ticks and flies flock to it."
"Corsican","Once grape gathering has finished, you have to hang up the basket."
"Corsican","One hand washes the other, both hands wash the face."
"Corsican","Not behaving and not organizing are as good as throwing yourself away."
"Corsican","Money from poor men and balls from dogs, impossible to hide."
"Corsican","Pray for those who are born into good families, for those born into bad families always manage to succeed."
"Corsican","Piglia muglieri, ch? affrinar?. Maries-toi et tu deviendras plus temp?r?."
"Corsican","Money doesn't come from singing."
"Corsican","People should be mourned at their birth, not at their death."
"Corsican","Pasta and macaroni, the hotter the better."
"Corsican","More ewes, more flus."
"Corsican","More kids are dying than old goats."
"Corsican","Mother sets aside and the cat eats."
"Corsican","My spurs and another's horse."
"Corsican","Next to fire, straw isn't good."
"Corsican","Night is the mother of advice."
"Corsican","The difference between appearances and truth is the same as between warping and weaving."
"Corsican","The Lord tests those he loves."
"Corsican","The Lord gives to he who has no teeth."
"Corsican","The Lord gives cold according to one's clothes."
"Corsican","The Lord gives biscuits to he who has teeth."
"Corsican","The fox can lose his fur but not his cunning."
"Corsican","The festival of ?mpaza comes to pass."
"Corsican","The dog barks, the pig eats."
"Corsican","The crow says the ugliest runt is his own."
"Corsican","The doctor can come and go, but he who is sick remains so."
"Corsican","The maquis has no eyes, but it sees all."
"Corsican","The dead with the dead, and the living with the living."
"Corsican","The closer a relation, the more it hits home."
"Corsican","The braying of donkeys doesn't reach heaven."
"Corsican","The doctor comes to the house where the sun can't reach."
"Corsican","The sun shines for everyone."
"Corsican","The worst kick is from a trained horse."
"Corsican","The worst kind of dog is the one who does not want to bite."
"Corsican","Receive and rejoice, Antonio, it's your celebration; always receive and never restrain."
"Corsican","Humid weather, smelly air."
"Corsican","The best pears are eaten by the pigs."
"Corsican","The word goes out but the message is lost."
"Corsican","The woman makes the man."
"Corsican","The world is like a ladder: some go up and some go down."
"Corsican","The vine says to the vintager: ""Make me poor, and I will make you rich."""
"Corsican","The more one lives the more one learns."
"Corsican","The soul to God, and the body to the Earth."
"Corsican","The soul belongs to God, and possessions to their owners."
"Corsican","The sea embraces streams."
"Corsican","The pubic hair of a woman mounting is stronger than two pairs of ox descending."
"Corsican","The owner's eye fattens the horse."
"Corsican","The most beautiful laughter comes from the mouth of a mourner."
"Corsican","The morning rainbow reaches the fountains; the evening rainbow fills the sails."
"Corsican","The weather worsens on Saint Bartholomew's Day."
"Corsican","If it's not your time, you won't be born and you won't die."
"Corsican","Put it in the ground and trust in God."
"Corsican","In a large church no priest dies."
"Corsican","If youth had the volition and if old age had the ability."
"Corsican","If you think you've reached the top, watch out, you can fall just as quickly."
"Corsican","If you own two houses, it's raining in one of them."
"Corsican","If there's thunder at Capu di Staghju, leave the wheat outside. If there's thunder at Capu di Muru, put it in a safe place."
"Corsican","Roba di Scolca, roba di forca. Les gens de Scolca sont bons pour la potence."
"Corsican","If someone isn't handsome by nature, it's useless for them to wash over and over again."
"Corsican","Reason is only verbal."
"Corsican","If everyone's misfortunes were seen by all in broad daylight, in the end people would take back their own."
"Corsican","If Bastelica had a port, Ajaccio would be its garden."
"Corsican","If a caged bird isn't singing for love, it's singing in a rage."
"Corsican","I can get another husband but never another brother."
"Corsican","The young pay for the old."
"Corsican","When Pisa burned, it rained three nights and three days."
"Corsican","If the sea were made of wine, how many drunkards there would be."
"Corsican","Share riches and poverty returns."
"Corsican","The barrel can only yield the wine that's in it."
"Corsican","The bad fortune of Zoza: in winter it sees not the sun and in summer it sees not the moon."
"Corsican","That which is written in Heaven, comes to pass on Earth."
"Corsican","Hunger drives the wolf from its den."
"Corsican","Superfine green beans, tomatoes and Chasselas grapes."
"Corsican","Superficiality goes from the door to the balcony."
"Corsican","Rainy March, beehives full of worms, and rams with colds."
"Corsican","Some die; others bloom."
"Corsican","Rats plotting: problems with flour."
"Corsican","Set aside emergencies and help a woman giving birth."
"Corsican","Seeing a man is seeing his character."
"Corsican","Seamen learn to get to know each other during a storm."
"Corsican","Santa Maria, Sich?: if you're not a thief you won't be happy there."
"Corsican","Ropes that are too long become snakes."
"Corsican","Red sea: good morning weather. Red mountains: water and wind."
"Corsican","The best gold is supple."
"Corsican","Some work, others merely daydream."
"Corsican","When the month of May arrives, women's hair grows and penises become strong."
"Corsican","When it rains and the sun comes out, foxes make love."
"Corsican","Where money is lacking, none enters."
"Corsican","Where money is lacking, God provides."
"Corsican","When you've been had, you go home."
"Corsican","When you pull the tooth, it will stop hurting."
"Corsican","When the sun sets, lazy people prepare."
"Corsican","Whether bad or good, Christ doesn't say why it happens."
"Corsican","When the sky looks like a hot oven, if no rain today, rain tomorrow."
"Corsican","Whether May is warm or not, don't take off your coat."
"Corsican","When the cuckoo sings, the wild boar loses its old coat, and the hen lays an egg without a false nest. And the ram's horns round out - he looks like a general."
"Corsican","When storms roll in, dogs make beds."
"Corsican","When something happens, praise it."
"Corsican","When peaches flower and ripen, days and nights have the same length."
"Corsican","When force and reason are in conflict, force of reason prevails and being reasonable isn't enough."
"Corsican","When cicadas sing, the swineherd weeps and works. When frogs sing, the swineherd yawns."
"Corsican","When the sun is on Azilonu, it's meal time."
"Corsican","Work in Micalassu: eating, drinking and strolling."
"Corsican","Zigliara, fire and flame."
"Corsican","You're correct, but the goat is mine."
"Corsican","You only die once."
"Corsican","You learn something every day."
"Corsican","You have to come into the world in order to enjoy the world."
"Corsican","You can't take a step that's longer than your legs."
"Corsican","Where there is a cock the chicken will not crow."
"Corsican","You can't put both feet in one shoe."
"Corsican","When a dog ages, the fox pees on it."
"Corsican","Words have no bones, but can break bones."
"Corsican","Women, problems."
"Corsican","Women's tears are fountains of malice."
"Corsican","Woe is he whose meal is in the river."
"Corsican","While travelling, the load settles in place."
"Corsican","Whether well-shaven or not, it looks the same after a few days."
"Corsican","You can't say ""prruci"" without lips."
"Corsican","Those who sleep with children wake up with shit on their asses."
"Corsican","Unseen merchandise cannot be evaluated."
"Corsican","Unhappy, he who has no one."
"Corsican","Too much is too much."
"Corsican","Too much good causes revolts."
"Corsican","To make your neighbor jealous, go to bed early and get up early."
"Corsican","To get to know people, you have to eat a full donkey's cargo of salt together."
"Corsican","When Christ disappears, light goes out."
"Corsican","Through bumps, one learns to walk."
"Corsican","Water ends up in the sea."
"Corsican","This basket that leaves and returns unfilled is not nice."
"Corsican","They who are born of chickens scratch the earth."
"Corsican","There's no point in whistling at an ox who doesn't want to drink."
"Corsican","There isn't a Saturday without sun, nor a woman without love."
"Corsican","There is no warmth where the sun doesn't shine."
"Corsican","There is no need to feed the dog that follows."
"Corsican","Through falls and stumbles, one learns to walk."
"Corsican","What a sad basket, leaving and returning empty."
"Corsican","Theory dominates practice."
"Corsican","When a blade has dulled, sharpen another."
"Corsican","What was done at night, is laughed about during the day."
"Corsican","What keeps its leaves, to the waning moon. What loses its leaves, to the new moon."
"Corsican","What goes around comes around."
"Corsican","What doesn't kill you, makes you stronger."
"Corsican","Vain speeches lead a man to the gallows."
"Corsican","What a sad bench it is that has never been sat upon by a grey beard."
"Corsican","Water ends up at the sea."
"Corsican","Weddings and widowings are by the hand of destiny."
"Corsican","Wedded in September, widow or sorrow."
"Corsican","Water makes mud, wine cleans the blood."
"Corsican","Water in July is good for nothing."
"Corsican","Water in August: Oil and ferment."
"Corsican","Water erodes slopes."
"Corsican","When a pig has eaten its full, it pushes over its trough."
"Corsican","What can a cat do if its master is crazy."
"Corsican","Anyone who lives will know trying times."
"Corsican","Crows with crows and ravens with ravens."
"Corsican","Beautiful things are never as beautiful as those that are pleasing."
"Corsican","Beautiful May mornings and beautiful January evenings."
"Corsican","At the beginning of January, take the bull to fields of heather."
"Corsican","At birth your fate is written."
"Corsican","As there is Easter, so there are meager times."
"Corsican","Better to have little than nothing."
"Corsican","April: shuffle the pigsty."
"Corsican","Better to sit next to someone taking a shit rather than someone carving stone."
"Corsican","An open path never seems long."
"Corsican","An Italian only feels safe with his hook in his belt."
"Corsican","An idle woman is up to no good."
"Corsican","An idle man is up to no good."
"Corsican","An empty purse can't stand alone and a full purse can't bend."
"Corsican","?mpaza, greedy greedy. She flies into a rage over a penny."
"Corsican","As long as there is life, there is hope."
"Corsican","Candlemas, Candlemas, whether windy or rainy, winter has ended. And if the weather is good, winter will last another thirty days."
"Corsican","Courage cannot be bought at the inn."
"Corsican","Company drags a man to the scaffold."
"Corsican","Coins are round and come and go."
"Corsican","C?cciula made by three is neither a failure nor a success."
"Corsican","Christmas on the balcony, Easter by the fire."
"Corsican","Christ doesn't pay every Friday evening."
"Corsican","Better the head of a village than the tail of a town."
"Corsican","Cards play and gamblers brag."
"Corsican","Ajaccio, Ajaccio, if you don't go there, you won't lose your money."
"Corsican","By the owner, the dog is respected."
"Corsican","By firelight, an old rag looks like sturdy hemp fabric."
"Corsican","Bread and bird: we don't discuss house business."
"Corsican","Blood is thicker than water."
"Corsican","Black ewe and white ewe: they who die, die, and those who live, live."
"Corsican","Better to take an old husband than none."
"Corsican","Carnival on the balcony, Easter by the fire."
"Corsican","A closed mouth catches neither flies nor food."
"Corsican","A fortune-teller would never be unhappy."
"Corsican","A fool doing what he knows is better than a hundred wise men doing what they don't know."
"Corsican","A fine rain still soaks you to the bone, but no one takes it seriously."
"Corsican","A father and mother can raise ten children. But ten children aren't enough to keep a father and a mother."
"Corsican","A cursed horse has a shining coat."
"Corsican","A curse turns around and strikes the one who uttered it in the face."
"Corsican","Alive one hour, dead another."
"Corsican","A crazy father and mother make sensible children."
"Corsican","A good buy is better than a good sale."
"Corsican","A Christmas of games, an Easter by the fire."
"Corsican","A Christian forgives, an idiot forgets."
"Corsican","A chicken who isn't pecking has already eaten."
"Corsican","A candidate promises more cheese than bread."
"Corsican","The yew tree exists three hundred years: first green, then dry, then gone."
"Corsican","Homes among homes and grapevines among grapevines."
"Corsican","A curse turns against the one who uttered it."
"Corsican","A language silenced is a people who die."
"Corsican","At the end of many disasters, there's always an Italian."
"Corsican","A woman builds and destroys a house."
"Corsican","A thin cat and a fat woman are the shame of a household."
"Corsican","A pound's worth of tears will not settle a penny's worth of debt."
"Corsican","A person peeing right against a wall most certainly has an Adam's apple."
"Corsican","A mare who has had a foal will never again drink pure water."
"Corsican","A fox distances itself from a crazy pup."
"Corsican","A luna: in vintinovi ?n ferma ? in trenta ?n va."
"Corsican","A full purse cannot bend."
"Corsican","A husband must be respected, even if he's very short."
"Corsican","A house: you can know who built it, but not who is enjoying it."
"Corsican","A horse aged thirty: don't add any more years."
"Corsican","A grunting donkey is nothing to be ashamed of."
"Corsican","A greedy man's possession is eaten by a pirate."
"Corsican","A good dog gets a good bone."
"Corsican","Alder fire, false fire."
"Corsican","A man without a woman is a tree without leaves and branches."
"Corsican","Have no respect at table and in bed."
"Corsican","Friends and family are worth more than money."
"Corsican","He who has an ass, farts."
"Corsican","He who goes slowly, goes surely; and he who goes surely, goes far."
"Corsican","He who eats holy bread has to deserve it."
"Corsican","He who does not know how to plant will plant in November."
"Corsican","He who does not grow old is deprived of life."
"Corsican","He who has nothing will not eat. If you want flour, go gather chestnuts."
"Corsican","He who bends over too far shows his rear end."
"Corsican","He who injures with the sword will be finished by the sword."
"Corsican","Have faith and God will provide."
"Corsican","Guargual?, Guargual?: it was rapids and remains rapids."
"Corsican","Grassy year, shitty year."
"Corsican","Giving what one does not possess is always a sign of charity."
"Corsican","Get advice, then make your own decision."
"Corsican","Furciolu, forked."
"Corsican","Full stomachs don't believe empty ones."
"Corsican","He who changes, suffers."
"Corsican","He who protects himself from cold also wards off heat."
"Corsican","Heaven helps those who help themselves."
"Corsican","He's like the rulers of la Rocca: a lot of smoke and no meat."
"Corsican","He who wins the first hand, leaves with only his pants in hand."
"Corsican","He who wants to have arms and necessities can take them himself."
"Corsican","He who studies does not waste his time."
"Corsican","He who sleeps cannot catch fish."
"Corsican","He who has money and friends, turns his nose at justice."
"Corsican","He who puts off something will lose it."
"Corsican","He who keeps his mouth shut doesn't get any flies to eat."
"Corsican","He who lives on hope, dies on shit."
"Corsican","He who lives fast goes straight to his death."
"Corsican","He who leaves and then returns, had a good trip."
"Corsican","At Pentecost, he who does not celebrate lives to regret it."
"Corsican","He who kills with bullets will die by bullets."
"Corsican","Cut me, prune me. Burn me, compost me."
"Corsican","He who is born a mule can never be a horse."
"Corsican","He who seeks, finds."
"Corsican","Don't look a gift horse in the mouth."
"Corsican","Flatter the mother to get the girl."
"Corsican","Dry August, chestnuts at every step."
"Corsican","Dress up a rod, it looks like a baron. Dress up a stick of heather, it looks like a lady."
"Corsican","Don't worry about the weather or the government."
"Corsican","Don't trust a trained louse."
"Corsican","Don't start braiding your rope on a Monday or a Friday."
"Corsican","Even fleas want to cough."
"Corsican","Don't poop in a field and don't talk in a forest."
"Corsican","Even honors are punishments."
"Corsican","Don't let children or pups get accustomed to your soup bowl."
"Corsican","Don't judge your life before it has ended."
"Corsican","Don't call a man who has a field in Valgonu ""poor""."
"Corsican","Doing that which has been done to us is not a sin."
"Corsican","Dogs bark and cows chew grass."
"Corsican","Do no evil, it's a sin. Do no good, it's no use."
"Corsican","He who leads an immoral life dies an immoral death."
"Corsican","Don't scoff at my mourning - mine is old and yours is recent."
"Corsican","Every fool follows their idea."
"Corsican","First me, then my son."
"Corsican","February has seven hats."
"Corsican","Everyone tries to make the water flow to his mill."
"Corsican","Everyone knows what's cooking in their pot."
"Corsican","Everyone drinks with their mouth."
"Corsican","Everyone cries with their eyes."
"Corsican","Dry March, good for beehives and rams."
"Corsican","Every opportunity passed is lost."
"Corsican","Every century, water finds its riverbed."
"Corsican","Disorder brings about order."
"Corsican","Every cat has a proper tail. Over there is a cat with no tail."
"Corsican","Every blind man weeps for his eyes."
"Corsican","Every bed has lice."
"Corsican","Even the king saves his money."
"Corsican","Every source flows to the sea."
"Costa Rican","Every word has three definitions and three interpretations."
"Costa Rican","To give in order to receive is not to give, but to beg."
"Costa Rican","Once does not mean frequently, and twice does not mean constantly."
"Costa Rican","Beauty and folly are constant companions."
"Costa Rican","All people have their friend and their enemy within themselves."
"Costa Rican","A mind can make a heaven out of hell, or a hell out of heaven."
"Costa Rican","The last to breathe is the first to drown."
"Costa Rican","Envy shoots as others and wounds herself."
"Costarican","There is no evil without goodness."
"Cote d'Ivoire","The river may is wide, but it can crossed.."
"Cote d'Ivoire","Two hippopotamuses cannot share the same hole."
"Cowboy","Never ask a barber if you need a haircut."
"Cowboy","Timing has a lot to do with the outcome of a rain dance."
"Cowboy","It don't take a genius to spot a goat in a flock of sheep."
"Cowboy","Always drink upstream from the herd."
"Cowboy","If you find yourself in a hole, the first thing to do is stop digging."
"Cowboy","Don't squat with your spurs on."
"Cowboy","If you get to thinking you're a person of some influence, try ordering somebody else's dog around."
"Cowboy","It don't take a genius to spot a goat in a flock of sheep."
"Cowboy","If you get to thinking you're a person of some influence, try ordering somebody else's dog around."
"Cowboy","Never ask a barber if you need a haircut."
"Cowboy","If you find yourself in a hole, the first thing to do is stop digging."
"Cowboy","Don't squat with your spurs on."
"Cowboy","Timing has a lot to do with the outcome of a rain dance."
"Cowboy","Always drink upstream from the herd."
"Creole","The monkey knows which branch to swing on."
"Creole","The higher the monkey climbs, the more it is exposed to danger."
"Creole","The goat that climbs up the rock also has to go down."
"Creole","The frog knows more about the rain than the calendar."
"Creole","Tell me who you love, and I'll tell you who you are."
"Creole","The ear is only a door."
"Creole","Tell me whom you love, and I'll tell you who you are."
"Creole","The beggar that begs near another beggar will never be rich."
"Creole","The back dies for the shoulder and the shoulder knows nothing about it."
"Creole","Thanks cost nothing."
"Creole","The mouth of a woman takes no holiday."
"Creole","You can hate the dog, but do not tell him that his teeth are dirty."
"Creole","The crow may be caged, but its thoughts are in the cornfield."
"Creole","The parson christens his own child first."
"Creole","The pumpkin vine never bears watermelons."
"Creole","The sea breeze blows the pelican where he wants to go."
"Creole","The tail of an ox says, ""Time goes, time comes."""
"Creole","What you don't know is bigger than you."
"Creole","What you lose in the fire, you will find in the ashes."
"Creole","When the crocodile says that the river crossing is deep you must believe it."
"Creole","You can make a mule cross the river but you cant make him drink the water."
"Creole","You may hide the fire, but what about the smoke?"
"Creole","You must have slept with jean to know how he snores."
"Creole","You never meet your mother-in-law on the day that you are welldressed."
"Creole","Speaking French is no proof of intelligence."
"Creole","Laugh at the rice and you will weep for the lentil."
"Creole","When the big fish fight the shrimps must lie low."
"Creole","Bathe other people's children but don't wash behind their ears."
"Creole","Sick people have no friends."
"Creole","Never sit while your seniors stand."
"Creole","A fisherman never says his fish stink."
"Creole","Be sure that the candle is lit before you throw away the match."
"Creole","Better your own cod than another's duck."
"Creole","Cowardly men, healthy bones."
"Creole","Cutting off a mule's ears doesn't make it a horse."
"Creole","Don't call the alligator ""big-mouth"" till you have crossed the river."
"Creole","Don't hang all your clothes on one hook."
"Creole","Ears have no covers."
"Creole","Eat with your mouth, pay with your back."
"Creole","Firm breasts don't last long."
"Creole","Knowledge that is not used is abused."
"Creole","A beautiful funeral does not necessarily lead to paradise."
"Creole","Good looking and good luck don't always walk the same road."
"Creole","Never mistake chicken shit for an egg."
"Creole","Never dress in mourning before the dead man is in his coffin."
"Creole","Never hang your hat higher than you can reach."
"Creole","If you see what the ducks eat then you eat no more duck."
"Creole","If you make yourself into a doormat, people will wipe their feet on you."
"Creole","If you don't lift the skirt of a bride you don't know what she wears under it."
"Creole","It's by following his friends that a crab lost its hiding place."
"Creole","If there were no sighing in the world, the world would stifle."
"Creole","Never let a boy do a man's work."
"Creole","If you dig a pit for me, you dig one for yourself."
"Creole","Cutting off a mule's ears doesn't make it a horse."
"Creole","Tell me whom you love and I'll tell you who you are."
"Croatian","No solutions without discussions."
"Croatian","The more eggs, the thicker the soup."
"Croatian","The hunchback sees the hump of others -- never his own."
"Croatian","The drunkard thinks of only one thing and the barman of something else."
"Croatian","The devil can make a pot but he can't make a lid."
"Croatian","Polite words open iron gates."
"Croatian","The starving man will never burn his bread."
"Croatian","Without money one cannot go anywhere, not even to church."
"Croatian","Much more than you have sown will grow in your garden."
"Croatian","Save three pieces of gold and the fourth one will fall into your lap."
"Croatian","The udder of a neighbor's cow is always bigger."
"Croatian","To follow everyone is wrong, to follow no one is worse."
"Croatian","Truth's violinist is always beaten with his own bow."
"Croatian","Where right has no power -- there power likes to be."
"Croatian","With a full belly it is easy to talk about fasting."
"Croatian","Woe to him who sits upon a branch."
"Croatian","You may boast to strangers, but tell the truth to your own people."
"Croatian","Man's law changes with his understanding of man. Only the laws of the spirit remain always the same."
"Croatian","Lies never pay the toll."
"Croatian","If you deliberate for too long, you will end up with leftovers."
"Croatian","Where the army goes there is no grass."
"Croatian","Better be in debt than in shame."
"Croatian","It is better to be a bull for a year than a cow for a hundred years."
"Croatian","It is easy for someone to talk about fasting when he has a full belly."
"Croatian","A good horse has many faults; a bad one has hardly any."
"Croatian","A guest will not know what fasting means."
"Croatian","An empty barrel sings in the wind."
"Croatian","Better a bad harvest than a bad neighbor."
"Croatian","A good friend is worth more than a bad brother."
"Croatian","Check before you bite if it is bread or a stone."
"Croatian","Don't measure a wolf's tail until he is dead."
"Croatian","If you take too long to choose, you will end up with the leftovers."
"Croatian","Every bird has a hawk above it."
"Croatian","Feed your horse as a friend, mount him as an enemy."
"Croatian","God does not love those who have not suffered."
"Croatian","His whole life he carried his wife on his back."
"Croatian","If sorrow would not talk it would die."
"Croatian","If you ask for too much at once, you will come home with an empty bag."
"Croatian","Even a dog will not eat a leg without flesh."
"Croatian","As soon as he set her down she said that she was tired."
"Croatian","It is better to work in your own land than to count your money abroad."
"Cuban","Listening looks easy, but it's not that simple. Every head is a world."
"Cuban","Listen to what they say of others and you will know what they say of you."
"Cuban","Listen to what they say about others, and you will know what they say about you."
"Cuban","Life is short; but it barely takes a second to smile."
"Cuban","Kitten's are a child's instrument for happiness."
"Cuban","Justice is a good thing, only not in my house, but in my neighbor's."
"Cuban","If you would be respected in company, seek the society of your equals and not of your superiors."
"Cuban","One washes the body in vain if one does not wash the soul."
"Cuban","You cannot distinguish between a drunken man and a mad man until they have slept."
"Cuban","Seven sons of one mother, and each one of a different mind."
"Cuban","Tell me what company you keep and i will tell you who you are."
"Cuban","The best of hunters lies more than he hunts."
"Cuban","The wise man never says, 'i did not think.'"
"Cuban","There is never wanting an excuse for drinking."
"Cuban","There is no better mirror than the face of an old friend."
"Cuban","There's no agreement under pressure."
"Cuban","There's no evil that lasts a hundred years, nor a body that can endure it."
"Cuban","When the sun rises, it rises for everyone."
"Cuban","If you return an ass's kick, most of the pain is yours."
"Cuban","When money talks, everyone else is silent."
"Cuban","A lie runs until truth catches up to it."
"Cuban","How can you trust anyone who doesn't know how to blush?"
"Cuban","Jovial companions make this dull life tolerable."
"Cuban","A lie runs until it is overtaken by the truth."
"Cuban","A love that can last forever takes but a second to come about."
"Cuban","A man possesses beauty in his quality and a woman possesses quality in her beauty."
"Cuban","A woman's honor consists in the good opinion the world has of her."
"Cuban","Brief encounters can result in long relationships."
"Cuban","Cheese, wine, and a friend must be old to be good."
"Cuban","Coffee from the top of the cup and chocolate from the bottom."
"Cuban","He who owes nothing has bought nothing on layaway."
"Cuban","Do not run into debt with a rich man, or promise anything to a poor one."
"Cuban","Even a leaf does not flutter on the tree without the will of god."
"Cuban","Every head is a world."
"Cuban","Faces of men we see but not their hearts."
"Cuban","Gluttony and vanity grow with age."
"Cuban","God made us and we wonder at it."
"Cuban","He who tells the truth doesn't sin, but he causes many inconveniences."
"Cuban","Do not be excessively timid or excessively confident."
"Cuban","He who speaks much, errs much."
"Cypress","We must convince by reason, not prescribe by tradition."
"Czech","Better a lie that soothes than a truth that hurts."
"Czech","The big thieves hang the little ones."
"Czech","Do not protect yourself by a fence, but rather by your friends."
"Czech","It is not the thief who is hanged, but one who was caught stealing."
"Czech","When you go to buy, use your eyes, not your ears."
"Czech","The first sin makes the bed for the second."
"Czech","The morning is wiser than the evening."
"Czech","The fish does not go after the hook, but after the bait."
"Czech","The fool never undertakes little."
"Czech","The big thieves hang the little ones."
"Czech","The Germans in the stable, the Czech in the kitchen and the French in bed."
"Czech","The blacksmith's horse has no horseshoes."
"Czech","The God who gave us teeth will also give us bread."
"Czech","The law has a nose of wax."
"Czech","The way one eats is the way one works."
"Czech","The moon does not care if the dog barks at it."
"Czech","The one who sits on the ground need not fear a fall."
"Czech","Still waters wash out banks."
"Czech","Many a friend has been lost by a jest, but none has ever been got by one."
"Czech","The Lord will drench you with His showers, but he will dry you with His sun."
"Czech","The wedding lasts for two or three days, but the trouble stays longer."
"Czech","Laws without penalties are like bells without clappers."
"Czech","Laws without punishment are like bells with no clackers."
"Czech","Learn a new language and get a new soul."
"Czech","Long tongue -- short hands."
"Czech","Love is partner of blindness."
"Czech","Love is sweet captivity."
"Czech","Many dogs, rabbit's death."
"Czech","Many a friend was lost through a joke, but none was ever gained so."
"Czech","Politeness pleases even a cat."
"Czech","May the Lord grant me a sword and no need to use it."
"Czech","Measure twice, cut once."
"Czech","Morning rain and women's tears dry as fast as each other."
"Czech","No church without a sermon."
"Czech","No man has fallen from the sky learned."
"Czech","Nothing seems expensive on credit."
"Czech","Our parents taught us to speak and the world taught us to be silent."
"Czech","When you go to buy, use your eyes, not your ears."
"Czech","There is no wise response to a foolish remark."
"Czech","When the fool knows when to be silent, he would be sitting among the wise."
"Czech","Do not protect yourself by a fence, but rather by your friends."
"Czech","Don't jump high in a room with a low ceiling."
"Czech","If you buy things you don't need, you are stealing from yourself."
"Czech","Only in water can you learn to swim."
"Czech","The person who God shows a treasure to must dig it out himself."
"Czech","Custom and law are sisters."
"Czech","The way to be safe is never to feel secure."
"Czech","Consider each day of your life as the best."
"Czech","Water is cheaper than medicine."
"Czech","What is soon ripe is soon rotten."
"Czech","When you buy, use your eyes and your mind, not your ears."
"Czech","When you go to buy, use your eyes not your ears."
"Czech","Joyfulness is half your health."
"Czech","What is called into a forest is the same what is echoed from the forest."
"Czech","The way one eats is the way one works."
"Czech","When we are at our happiest, then it is best to leave and go home."
"Czech","There are no cakes without work."
"Czech","There can be no judge without an accused."
"Czech","There is no point in showing the way to an old hare."
"Czech","There were once three brothers: a lie, theft and the gallows."
"Czech","Wait for a month before you praise a horse, and for a year before you praise a woman."
"Czech","Warm food, warm friendships."
"Czech","Do not choose your wife at a dance, but in the field among the harvesters."
"Czech","When a man is not a lover in his twenties, not strong in his thirties, not rich in his forties and not wise in his fifties he will never be so."
"Czech","The world at large doesn't lead to hell nor does the monastery lead to heaven."
"Czech","Who goes for a day in the forest should take bread for a week."
"Czech","Wisdom is easy to carry but difficult to gather."
"Czech","You are so many times a human how many languages you know."
"Czech","You walk so long with a jar for water, until the handle breaks off."
"Czech","You will get furthest with honesty."
"Czech","You will use in the old what you have learned young."
"Czech","Wars are caused by women and priests."
"Czech","Do not blow in the bear's ear."
"Czech","Don't jump high in a room with a low ceiling."
"Czech","Better a sparrow in the hand than a pigeon on the roof."
"Czech","Better to have a handful of might than a sack of justice."
"Czech","Blessed is the man who has friends, but woe to him who needs them."
"Czech","Choose your woman with a velvet glove, but control her with a fist of iron."
"Czech","Cleanliness is half your health."
"Czech","Better a lie that soothes than a truth that hurts."
"Czech","Do not always expect good to happen, but do not let evil take you by surprise."
"Czech","Beer makes beautiful bodies."
"Czech","Do not buy with your ears but with your eyes."
"Czech","Do not choose your wife at a dance, but in the field among the harvesters."
"Czech","Do not protect yourself with a fence, but rather by your friends."
"Czech","Don't be a lion in your own house."
"Czech","Don't extinguish something that does not burn you."
"Czech","Don't go to the pub without money."
"Czech","Consider each day of your life to be the best."
"Czech","A sweaty foot seldom comes alone."
"Czech","Joy and sorrow sleep in the same bed."
"Czech","When in need, you shall know a friend."
"Czech","A crow sits next to a crow."
"Czech","A crow will not peck out a crow's eyes."
"Czech","A custom wears a shirt of iron."
"Czech","A dog that barks doesn't bite."
"Czech","Better a lie which heals than a truth which wounds."
"Czech","A lie has short legs."
"Czech","Anger is the only thing to put off until tomorrow."
"Czech","After a battle, everyone is a general."
"Czech","Against the beastly human being even the gods are powerless."
"Czech","An apple does not fall far from the tree."
"Czech","As long as a language lives, the people will not perish."
"Czech","As one makes his bed, that way he shall lie down."
"Czech","As one sows, so shall he reap."
"Czech","A good neighbor increases the value of your property."
"Czech","If you wake up in the morning and feel no pain it is to be feared that you died in the night."
"Czech","He who is not lazy shall get much green."
"Czech","He who looks only at heaven may easily break his nose on earth."
"Czech","He who saves shall have as much as three."
"Czech","He who waits shall live to see."
"Czech","Hope is a great breakfast but a poor dinner."
"Czech","Hunger is the best cook."
"Czech","He who is curious shall grow old soon."
"Czech","If the goat had a longer tail he could wipe the stars clean."
"Czech","If a woman doesn't know what she has to answer then the sea is dry."
"Czech","If you want to hear the truth about yourself -- offend your neighbor."
"Czech","In a healthy body, a healthy spirit."
"Czech","Doubts mean losing half of one's case beforehand."
"Czech","All rivers do their best for the sea."
"Czech","It is usually dark below the candlestick."
"Czech","It is not the thief who is hanged, but one who was caught stealing."
"Czech","It is better not to begin than, having begun, leave unfinished."
"Czech","I am a gentleman and you are a gentleman; who, then, should look after the pigs?"
"Czech","Forbidden fruit tastes best."
"Czech","Even in hell it is good to have friends."
"Czech","Even small fish are fish."
"Czech","Everywhere is well, at home it's best."
"Czech","If you do good to the Devil, out of gratitude he will deliver you to hell."
"Czech","He who has not been given brains from above will not buy them at the apothecary."
"Czech","Even in the tiniest little chapel there are some prayers said once a year."
"Czech","Extol the virtue of water, but drink wine."
"Czech","Early bird hops further."
"Czech","He who digs a pit for another falls into it himself."
"Czech","God's mills mill slowly, but surely."
"Czech","He who comes sooner shall mill/grind sooner."
"Czech","He who cannot cut the bread evenly cannot get on well with people."
"Czech","Guest and fish stinks at third day."
"Czech","Good memories last long, bad ones last longer."
"Czech","Gentlemen don't want to give much and are ashamed to give little."
"Czech","The big thieves hang the little ones."
"Czech","The way to be safe is never to feel secure."
"Czech","When you go to buy, use your eyes, not your ears."
"Czech","It is not the thief who is hanged, but one who was caught stealing."
"Czech","He who cannot cut the bread evenly cannot get on well with people."
"Czech","Do not protect yourself by a fence, but rather by your friends."
"Czech","Better a lie that soothes than a truth that hurts."
"Czech","The way one eats is the way one works."
"Dakota","We will be known forever by the tracks we leave."
"Dakota","Death is nothing and pain is nothing, but cowardice is crime and disgrace, the greatest punishment."
"Dakotan","We will be known by the tracks we leave behind."
"Dakotan","We will be known by the tracks we leave behind."
"Danish","Tell nothing to thy friend that thy enemy may not know."
"Danish","An honest man is not the worse because a dog barks at him."
"Danish","No one can be caught in places he does not visit."
"Danish","Peace and a well-built house cannot be bought too dearly."
"Danish","No one is rich enough to do without a neighbor."
"Danish","Gifts should be handed, not thrown."
"Danish","If the beard were all, goats could preach."
"Danish","He who would leap far must first take a long run."
"Danish","To a friend's house the road is never long."
"Danish","He who sows peas on the highway does not get all the pods into his barn."
"Danish","He who feeds the hen ought to have the egg."
"Danish","He who waits for a dead man's shoes is in danger of going barefoot."
"Danish","Give to a pig when it grunts and a child when it cries , and you will have a fine pig and a bad child."
"Danish","Children are a poor man's wealth."
"Danish","Unwilling service earns no thanks."
"Danish","From praise, as from a shadow, a man is neither bigger nor smaller."
"Danish","A fool is like all other men as long as he remains silent."
"Danish","They brag most of their ancestors who are unworthy of them."
"Danish","He who takes a child by the hand takes a mother by the heart."
"Danish","The dog's kennel is not the place to keep a sausage."
"Danish","Young pigs grunt as as old pigs grunted before them."
"Danish","One enemy is too much, and a hundred friends are not enough."
"Danish","One bite brings another."
"Danish","One fool makes many."
"Danish","Old oxen have stiff horns."
"Danish","One bird in your hand is better than ten on the roof."
"Danish","One Englishman can beat three Frenchmen."
"Danish","One eye is a better witness than two ears."
"Danish","One bird in the hand is better than two on the roof."
"Danish","One fool may ask more questions than ten wise men can answer."
"Danish","One beggar likes not that another has two wallets."
"Danish","One bag of money is stronger than two bags of truth."
"Danish","Old swine have hard snouts, old oxen hard horns."
"Danish","Old soldiers never die."
"Danish","Old signs do not deceive."
"Danish","Old friends and old ways ought not to be disdained."
"Danish","One hair of a maiden's head pulls harder than ten yoke of oxen."
"Danish","Old friends and old wine are best."
"Danish","One who is afraid of asking is ashamed of learning."
"Danish","Old mistakes need more friends than new truths."
"Danish","Old habits die hard."
"Danish","Old sins cast long shadows."
"Danish","One raven does not peck out another's eyes."
"Danish","Onions, smoke, and a shrew, make a good man's eyes water."
"Danish","Onions, smoke and women bring tears to your eyes."
"Danish","Need makes the old wife trot."
"Danish","Old birds are not caught with chaff."
"Danish","One would rather be bitten by wolves than by sheep."
"Danish","One word beforehand is better than ten afterwards."
"Danish","One who is afraid of asking questions is ashamed of learning."
"Danish","One to one, and two to the devil."
"Danish","One swallow does not make a summer."
"Danish","One sword keeps another in its scabbard."
"Danish","One scabbed sheep will mar a whole flock."
"Danish","One hand full of money is stronger than two hands full of truth."
"Danish","One ploughs, another sows, who will reap no one knows."
"Danish","One piece of good advice is better than a bag full."
"Danish","One penny is better on land than ten on the sea."
"Danish","One mangy sheep spoils a whole flock."
"Danish","One man often talks another off his bench, and seats himself upon it."
"Danish","One man is not bad because another is good."
"Danish","One man is born to money, and another to the purse."
"Danish","One ill weed mars a whole pot of pottage."
"Danish","One hunts the hare, and another eats it."
"Danish","One hand must wash the other, or both will be dirty."
"Danish","One should speak a little with others and a lot with oneself."
"Danish","Necessity knows no law."
"Danish","Never let fools see half-finished work."
"Danish","New things are most looked at."
"Danish","New songs are liked the best."
"Danish","New dishes beget new appetites."
"Danish","New comers are always welcome."
"Danish","New brooms sweep clean."
"Danish","Never repent a good action."
"Danish","Opportunity makes the thief."
"Danish","Never advise anyone to go to war or to marry."
"Danish","No answer is also an answer."
"Danish","Necessity teaches the naked woman to spin."
"Danish","No is a good answer when given in time."
"Danish","National customs are national honours."
"Danish","Much water runs by while the miller sleeps."
"Danish","Much noise and little wool, said the devil, when he was shearing the sow."
"Danish","Much broth is sometimes made with little meat."
"Danish","More than enough is too much."
"Danish","More people know Tom Fool than Tom Fool knows."
"Danish","More people are slain by supper than by the sword."
"Danish","More flies are caught with a drop of honey than with a barrel of vinegar."
"Danish","Money saved is as good as money gained."
"Danish","Relatives are the worst friends, said the fox as the dogs took after him."
"Danish","No one is rich enough to do without his neighbour."
"Danish","Nothing is so new but it has happened before."
"Danish","Not everybody is as bad as he is dressed."
"Danish","Not every wood will make wooden shoes."
"Danish","None so deaf as those who won't hear."
"Danish","No one so hard upon the poor as the pauper who has got into power."
"Danish","No one knows what will happen to him before sunset."
"Danish","No one knows what the dinner was after the plates have been washed."
"Danish","No one knows what a day may bring forth."
"Danish","No one knows the parson better than the clerk."
"Danish","No and yes cause long disputes."
"Danish","No one is so rich that he can do without a good neighbor."
"Danish","Of bad debtors you make take spoilt herrings."
"Danish","No one gets into trouble without his own help."
"Danish","No one falls low unless he attempt to climb high."
"Danish","No one can see into another further than his teeth."
"Danish","No one can be caught in places he does not visit."
"Danish","No matter how high a bird can fly, it still has to look for food on the ground."
"Danish","No man sees his shadow who faces the sun."
"Danish","No man looks for another in a sack, unless he has been there him himself."
"Danish","No man limps because another is hurt."
"Danish","No man is so tall that he need never stretch, and none so small that he need never stoop."
"Danish","No one is so tall that he never needs to stretch, and no one is so short that he never needs to stoop."
"Danish","Silver and gold are all men's dears."
"Danish","Speech is oft repented, silence seldom."
"Danish","Speaking silence is better than senseless speech."
"Danish","Speak little of your ill luck, and boast not of your good luck."
"Danish","Sparrows should not dance with cranes, their legs are too short."
"Danish","Sorrow seldom comes alone."
"Danish","So many heads, so many minds."
"Danish","Smoke, rain, and a scolding wife, are three bad things in a house."
"Danish","Small profits are sweet."
"Danish","Small beer comes the last."
"Danish","Rats and conquerors must expect no mercy in misfortune."
"Danish","Slander expires at a good woman's door."
"Danish","Speedy execution is the mother of good fortune."
"Danish","Silent tongue and hempen heart often go together."
"Danish","Silence is a wonderful jewel for a woman but she seldom wears it."
"Danish","Sight goes before hearsay."
"Danish","Sight before hearsay."
"Danish","Sickness is every man's master."
"Danish","Sickness comes uninvited--no need to bespeak it."
"Danish","Sickness comes in haste, and goes at leisure."
"Danish","Should the heavens fall, many pipkins will be broken."
"Danish","Short pleasure often brings long repentance."
"Danish","Slander leaves a score behind it."
"Danish","Take care of your geese when the fox preaches."
"Danish","That which has been eaten out of the pot cannot be put into the dish."
"Danish","That which comes with sin, goes with sorrow."
"Danish","That may be soon done, which brings long repentance."
"Danish","That is true which all men say."
"Danish","That is poor help that helps you from the feather-bed to the straw."
"Danish","That bench is well adorned that is filled with virtuous women."
"Danish","Ten noes are better then one lie."
"Danish","Tell nothing to thy friend which why enemy may not know."
"Danish","Take off your hat quickly but slowly take hold of your purse."
"Danish","Speech is often repented, silence never."
"Danish","Take help of many, advice of few."
"Danish","Speech is silver, but silence is golden."
"Danish","Take advice of a red-bearded man, and be gone."
"Danish","Suffering and patience, obedience and application, help the lowly born to honour."
"Danish","Strike while the iron is hot."
"Danish","Straws tell which way the wind blows."
"Danish","Strangers' meat is the greatest treat."
"Danish","Stop, look and listen."
"Danish","Stop and smell the roses."
"Danish","Stoop, and let it pass; the storm will have its way."
"Danish","Still waters run deep."
"Danish","Shame comes to no man unless he himself help it on the way."
"Danish","Take not your sickle to another man's corn."
"Danish","Pheasants are fools if they invite the hawk to dinner."
"Danish","Short flax makes long thread."
"Danish","Praise paves the way to friendship."
"Danish","Praise is the hire of virtue."
"Danish","Praise is not pudding."
"Danish","Praise borrowed from ancestors is but very sorry praise."
"Danish","Praise a fool, and you may make him useful."
"Danish","Praise a fair day in the evening."
"Danish","Power often goes before talent."
"Danish","Poor relations have little honour."
"Danish","Precipitate counsel--perilous deed."
"Danish","Philosophy bakes no bread."
"Danish","Presents make women affable, priests indulgent, and the law crooked."
"Danish","People must eat, even were every tree a gallows."
"Danish","Peace must be bought even at a high price."
"Danish","Peace feeds, war wastes; peace breeds, war consumes."
"Danish","Peace and a well-built house cannot be bought too dearly."
"Danish","Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee."
"Danish","Out of the fulness of the heart the mouth speaketh."
"Danish","Out of the fullness of the heart the mouth speaks."
"Danish","Out of sight out of mind."
"Danish","Other times, other folk."
"Danish","Opportunity only knocks once."
"Danish","Physicians rarely take medicine."
"Danish","Luck sometimes visits a fool, but never sits down with him."
"Danish","Opportunity never knocks twice at any man's door."
"Danish","Set hard heart against hard hap."
"Danish","Set a thief to catch a thief."
"Danish","Set a fox to catch a fox."
"Danish","Secret gifts are openly rewarded."
"Danish","Sail while the breeze blows, wind and tide wait for no man."
"Danish","Rust consumes iron, and envy consumes itself."
"Danish","Riches breed care, poverty is safe."
"Danish","Riches are often abused, but never refused."
"Danish","Praise the child, and you make love to the mother."
"Danish","Rest is good after the work is done."
"Danish","Shared sorrow is half sorrow."
"Danish","Reconciled friendship is like a badly healed wound."
"Danish","Money is more eloquent that a dozen members of parliament."
"Danish","Rather the egg to-day than the hen to-morrow."
"Danish","Rain comes oft after sunshine, and after a dark cloud a clear sky."
"Danish","Quick and well seldom go together."
"Danish","Put your hand quickly to your hat, and slowly in your purse, and you will take no harm."
"Danish","Promises and undressed cloth are apt to shrink."
"Danish","Profit is better than fame."
"Danish","Pride will have a fall."
"Danish","Pretty children sing pretty songs."
"Danish","Riches and favour go before wisdom and art."
"Danish","It is not for the swan to teach eaglets to sing."
"Danish","Luck taps at the door and inquires whether prudence is within."
"Danish","It is too late to cover the well when the child is drowned."
"Danish","It is time enough to take off your hat when you see the man."
"Danish","It is the raised stick that makes the dog obey."
"Danish","It is safe to lend barley to him who has oats."
"Danish","It is possible for a ram to kill a butcher."
"Danish","It is poor comfort for one who has broken his leg, that another has broken his neck."
"Danish","It is pleasant driving when there is no danger of upsetting."
"Danish","It is only the blind who ask why they are loved who are fair."
"Danish","It is too late to learn to swim when the water is up to your lips."
"Danish","It is not the surplice that makes parson or clerk."
"Danish","It is too late to throw water on the cinders when the house is burnt down."
"Danish","It is not for the good of the cow when she is driven in a carriage."
"Danish","It is not for nothing that the devil lays himself down in the ditch."
"Danish","It is not every one who takes the right sow by the ear."
"Danish","It is not every man that can carry a falcon on his hand."
"Danish","It is not every hog that the crow will ride."
"Danish","It is not easy to walk upon the devil's ice."
"Danish","It is not easy to straighten in the oak the crook that grew in the sapling."
"Danish","It is not easy to sting a bear with a straw."
"Danish","It is not easy to pluck hairs from a bald pate."
"Danish","It is of no use making shoes for geese."
"Danish","It's no disgrace to be poor, but it can be inconvenient."
"Danish","Keep your nose out of another's mess."
"Danish","Keep your mouth, and keep your friend."
"Danish","Keep to the little ones, and the big ones will not bite you."
"Danish","Keep not two tongues in one mouth."
"Danish","Justice oft leans to the side where the purse pulls."
"Danish","Help the lame dog over the stile."
"Danish","Joy surfeited turns to sorrow."
"Danish","Joy is like the ague; one good day between two bad ones."
"Danish","Jest with your equals."
"Danish","It is too late to cry cat, when the bacon is eaten."
"Danish","It's possible to light another man's candle without damaging your own."
"Danish","It is not all who turn their backs that flee."
"Danish","It takes many words to fill a sack."
"Danish","It takes a good many mice to kill a cat."
"Danish","It needs but slight provocation to make the wolf devour the lamb."
"Danish","It needs a light spirit to bear a heavy fate."
"Danish","It needs a high wall to keep out fear."
"Danish","It must be a hard winter when one wolf devours another."
"Danish","It is well to have clean bread in one's wallet."
"Danish","It is vain to fish without a hook, or learn to read without a book."
"Danish","It is useless to gape against an oven."
"Danish","Italian devotion and German fasting have no meaning."
"Danish","It is difficult to trap an old fox."
"Danish","It is easy to sit at the helm in fine weather."
"Danish","It is easy to poke another man's fire."
"Danish","It is easy to manage when fortune favors."
"Danish","It is easy to find the rod when another finds the bottom."
"Danish","It is easy to bid the devil be your guest, but difficult to get rid of him."
"Danish","It is easy to be generous with another man's money."
"Danish","It is easy to be generous out of another man's purse."
"Danish","It is easier to suppress the first desire than to satisfy all that follow it."
"Danish","It is easier to stem the brook than the river."
"Danish","It is not easy to know your butter in another man's cabbage."
"Danish","It is discreditable to fly from a living enemy, or to abuse a dead one."
"Danish","It is folly to drown on dry land."
"Danish","It is difficult to tie an unborn horse to the manger."
"Danish","It is difficult to spit honey out of a mouth full of gall."
"Danish","It is difficult to hide what everybody knows."
"Danish","It is difficult to get many heads under one hat."
"Danish","It is dear-bought butter that is licked off a woolcomb."
"Danish","It is dangerous to eat cherries with the great, they throw the stones at your head."
"Danish","It is bitter fare to eat one's own words."
"Danish","That which has been thrown away has often to be begged for again."
"Danish","Truth is God's daughter."
"Danish","It is easier to fill a rogue's belly than his eye."
"Danish","It is hard to live in Rome and strive against the Pope."
"Danish","Kind words and few are a woman's ornament."
"Danish","It is not all gold that glitters."
"Danish","It is no use hiding from a friend what is known to an enemy."
"Danish","It is no disgrace to be poor, but it can be inconvenient."
"Danish","It is no child's play when an old woman dances."
"Danish","It is hard to track the path the ship follows in the ocean."
"Danish","It is hard to teach an old dog new tricks."
"Danish","It is hard to sail without wind, and to grind without water."
"Danish","It is hard to pay for bread that has already been eaten."
"Danish","It is easy to stride a tree when it is down."
"Danish","It is hard to lure hawks with empty hands."
"Danish","It is easy to swim, when another holds up your head."
"Danish","It is hard to labour with an empty belly."
"Danish","It is hard to glean after a niggardly husbandman."
"Danish","It is good to sleep in a whole skin."
"Danish","It is good to make a bridge of gold to a flying enemy."
"Danish","It is good to lend to God and to the soil--they pay good interest."
"Danish","It is good to be priest at Easter, child in Lent, peasant at Christmas, and foal in harvest-time."
"Danish","It is folly to take a thorn out of another's foot and put it into your own."
"Danish","It is folly to sing twice to a deaf man."
"Danish","It is folly to fear what one cannot avoid."
"Danish","It is not easy to guard the hen that lays her eggs abroad."
"Danish","It is hard to make a fire on a cold hearth."
"Danish","Luck has but a slender anchorage."
"Danish","Many a cow stands in the meadow and looks wistfully at the common."
"Danish","Man punishes the action, but God the intention."
"Danish","It is better to suffer for truth than to prosper by falsehood."
"Danish","Man proposes, God disposes."
"Danish","Make use of the sun while it shines."
"Danish","Mad dogs get their coats torn."
"Danish","Lucky at cards, unlucky in love."
"Danish","Luck will carry a man across the brook if he is not too lazy to leap."
"Danish","Luck stops at the door and inquires whether prudence is within."
"Danish","Look not out for dead men's shoes."
"Danish","Luck has much for many, but enough for no one."
"Danish","Many a man labours for the day he will never live to see."
"Danish","Love's quarrels oft in pleasing concord end."
"Danish","Love's plant must be watered with tears, and tended with care."
"Danish","Love me little and love me long."
"Danish","Love is one-eyed, hate is blind."
"Danish","Love is blind and thinks that others don't see either."
"Danish","Love has produced some heroes but many idiots too."
"Danish","Love begets love."
"Danish","Love and poverty are hard to conceal."
"Danish","Keep your nose to the grindstone."
"Danish","Luck is better than a hundred marks."
"Danish","Many love to praise right and do wrong."
"Danish","Misfortune seldom comes alone to the house."
"Danish","Mischief comes soon enough."
"Danish","Mine and thine are the sources of all quarrels."
"Danish","Might have gone further and have fared worse."
"Danish","Might and courage require wit in their suite."
"Danish","Meddle with dirt and some of it will stick to you."
"Danish","Marry you son when you will, and your daughter when you can."
"Danish","Many small streams make a large river."
"Danish","Many small creeks make a big river."
"Danish","Many a fool might pass for a wise man if he would only keep his mouth shut."
"Danish","Many men are like clocks that show one hour and strike another."
"Danish","Many a man is a good friend but a bad neighbour."
"Danish","Many little rivulets make a great river."
"Danish","Many kiss the child for the nurse's sake."
"Danish","Many have too much, but none have enough."
"Danish","Many grains of sand will sink a ship."
"Danish","Many dogs are the death of the hare."
"Danish","Many a thing whispered into one ear is heard over the whole town."
"Danish","Many a sheep goes out woolly and comes home shorn."
"Danish","Many a one would like to lay his own shame on another man's back."
"Danish","Many a mickle makes a muckle."
"Danish","Look not a gift horse in the mouth."
"Danish","Many people love to praise right and do wrong."
"Danish","Law helps the waking, luck may come to the sleeping."
"Danish","Let every bird sing its own note."
"Danish","Let deeds match words."
"Danish","Let another's shipwreck be your sea-mark."
"Danish","Let another man praise thee, not thine own mouth."
"Danish","Let a saint be ever so humble, he will have his wax taper."
"Danish","Let a horse drink when he will, not what he will."
"Danish","Let a dog get at a dish of honey, and he will jump in with both legs."
"Danish","Let a child have its will, and it will not cry."
"Danish","Lend to your friend, and ask payment of your enemy."
"Danish","Lords and fools speak freely."
"Danish","Lawyers and painters can soon change white to black."
"Danish","Let him who would reach another a brand, beware that he do not burn his own hand."
"Danish","Laugh and the world laughs with you, weep and you weep alone."
"Danish","Late repentance is seldom worth much."
"Danish","Lang tarrying taks a' the thanks awa'."
"Danish","Lambs don't runs with the mouth of the sleeping wolf."
"Danish","Labour has a bitter root, but a sweet taste."
"Danish","Kisses are the messengers of love."
"Danish","Kind words heal friendship's wounds."
"Danish","Kind words don't wear out the tongue."
"Danish","Misfortune sits on a rich man's lap but grabs the throat of the pauper."
"Danish","Laziness is the devil's pillow."
"Danish","Like plays best with like."
"Danish","Live with wolves, and you learn to howl."
"Danish","Live according to your means."
"Danish","Little sticks kindle a fire, great ones put it out."
"Danish","Little sorrows are loud, great ones silent."
"Danish","Little saints also perform miracles."
"Danish","Little fish are sweet."
"Danish","Little children, little sorrows; big children, great sorrows."
"Danish","Lilies are whitest in a blackmoor's hand."
"Danish","Likeness is the mother of love."
"Danish","Let every man carry his own sack to the mill."
"Danish","Like seeks like--a scabbed horse and a sandy dike."
"Danish","Let him stay at the oar who has learnt to row."
"Danish","Life is not holding a good hand; Life is playing a poor hand well."
"Danish","Life begins at forty."
"Danish","Life at court is often a short cut to hell."
"Danish","Lies and Latin go round the world."
"Danish","Lies and gossip have a wretched offspring."
"Danish","Liberal hands make many friends."
"Danish","Let the blood be ever so thin, it is always thicker than water."
"Danish","Let no one look into your heart or into your purse."
"Danish","Let ilka herring hing by its ain head."
"Danish","Kill no more than you can salt, or you will have tainted meat."
"Danish","Like will to like."
"Danish","What is play to the strong is death to the weak."
"Danish","When the fox preaches to the goose her neck is in danger."
"Danish","When a man is not liked, whatever he doth is amiss."
"Danish","When a man is in a sack, he must get out at the mouth or at the bottom."
"Danish","What. give the lettuce in charge to the geese."
"Danish","What youth learns, age does not forget."
"Danish","What you learn to your cost you remember long."
"Danish","What you do yourself is well done."
"Danish","What you cannot say briefly you do not know."
"Danish","What you are is God's gift to you what you do with yourself is your gift to God."
"Danish","When dirt comes to honour it know not what to be."
"Danish","What is sweet in the mouth is not always good in the stomach."
"Danish","When every man gets his own the devil gets nothing."
"Danish","What is play to the cat is death to the mouse."
"Danish","What is gotten over the devil's back is spent under his belly."
"Danish","What is got by begging is dearly bought."
"Danish","What is done cannot be undone."
"Danish","Well begun is half done."
"Danish","Welcome is the best cheer."
"Danish","Weighty work must be done with few words."
"Danish","Weeds never die out."
"Danish","We must suffer much, or die young."
"Danish","What the sober man has in his heart, the drunkard has on his lips."
"Danish","When mistrust enters, love departs."
"Danish","Truth is always homeless."
"Danish","When the feed box is empty, the horses bite each other."
"Danish","When the crane attempts to dance with the house she gets broken bones."
"Danish","When the cord is tightest it is nearest snapping."
"Danish","When the cook is roasting for the butler, woe to the master's wine-cask."
"Danish","When the cat's away the mice will play."
"Danish","When the cat and the mouse agree the farmer doesn't stand a chance."
"Danish","When the belly is full the mind is amongst the maids."
"Danish","When the beer goes in the wits go out."
"Danish","When anger blinds the eyes, truth disappears."
"Danish","When neighbours quarrel, lookers-on are more apt to add fuel than water."
"Danish","We must bear our cross with patience, said the man when he took his wife on his back."
"Danish","When lazy horses begin to start, old women to dance, and white clouds to rain, there is no stopping them."
"Danish","When joy is in the parlour, sorrow is in the passage."
"Danish","When it rains porridge the beggar has no spoon."
"Danish","When it pours upon the parson, it drops upon the clerk."
"Danish","When I have money in my purse, I have food in my mouth."
"Danish","When friends ask, there is no tomorrow."
"Danish","When fortune's chariot rolls easily, envy and shame cling to the wheels."
"Danish","When fools go to market the huckster gets money."
"Danish","When every one minds his own business the work is done."
"Danish","When one foot stumbles, the other is near falling."
"Danish","To live long is to suffer long."
"Danish","Treachery lurks in honeyed words."
"Danish","Treachery and slander are long lived."
"Danish","Too many cooks spoil the broth."
"Danish","Too many captains will sink the ship."
"Danish","Too little, too late."
"Danish","Too little and too much spoils everything."
"Danish","To-day in gold, to-morrow in the mould."
"Danish","To withhold truth is to bury gold."
"Danish","To wait and be patient soothes many a pang."
"Danish","We must sow even after a bad harvest."
"Danish","To promise is easy, to keep is troublesome."
"Danish","Trust not still water nor a silent man."
"Danish","To know the law and do the right are two things."
"Danish","To have a woman is bad; to lose her is worse."
"Danish","To God's council-chamber there is no key."
"Danish","To give counsel to a fool is like throwing water on a goose."
"Danish","To cut into another's man's ear is like cutting into a felt hat."
"Danish","To circumstances and custom the law must yield."
"Danish","To be a fool at the right time is also an art."
"Danish","To bait and to grease does not retard a journey."
"Danish","To a friend's house the road is never long."
"Danish","To tell the truth is dangerous; to listen to it is boring."
"Danish","Unworthy offspring brag the most about their worthy descendants."
"Danish","When the game is most thriving it is time to leave off."
"Danish","We get too soon old and too late smart."
"Danish","We are all well placed, said the cat, when she was seated on the bacon."
"Danish","Wash a dog, comb a dog, still a dog remains a dog."
"Danish","Wanton kittens make sober cats."
"Danish","Want of variety leads to satiety."
"Danish","Want and necessity break faith and oaths."
"Danish","Virtue in the middle, said the Devil, when seated between two lawyers."
"Danish","Vipers breed vipers."
"Danish","Trust everybody, but thyself most."
"Danish","Vice is learnt without a schoolmaster."
"Danish","Trust not a skittish horse, nor a great lord, when they shake their heads."
"Danish","Unwilling service earns no thanks."
"Danish","Under white ashes lie often glowing embers."
"Danish","Unanimity is the strongest fortress."
"Danish","Two may lie so as to hang a third."
"Danish","Two are the masters of one."
"Danish","Truth's cloak is often lined with lies."
"Danish","Truth must be seasoned to make it palatable."
"Danish","Truth is bitter food."
"Danish","Truth and folly dwell in the wine-cask."
"Danish","We must eat a peck of dirt before we die."
"Danish","Vice is most dangerous when it puts on the garb of virtue."
"Danish","You cannot shear the sheep closer than the skin."
"Danish","When the fox licks his paw let the farmer look after his geese."
"Danish","You may force a man to shut his eyes, but not to sleep."
"Danish","You may force a horse to the water, but you cannot make him drink."
"Danish","You may cook in small pots aw well as in large ones."
"Danish","You may call that your own which no one can take from you."
"Danish","You may as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb."
"Danish","You may always find an opportunity in your sleeve, if you like."
"Danish","You have either to suffer a lot or die young."
"Danish","You cannot take a shirt from a naked man."
"Danish","You may gain by fair words what may fail you by angry ones."
"Danish","You cannot shift an old tree without it dying."
"Danish","You may get something off a bone, but nothing off a stone."
"Danish","You cannot serve God and mammon."
"Danish","You cannot sail as you would, but as the wind blows."
"Danish","You cannot pull hard with a broken rope."
"Danish","You cannot make a good hunting-horn of a pig's tail."
"Danish","You cannot make a good archbishop out of a rogue."
"Danish","You cannot have your cake and eat it."
"Danish","You cannot have peace longer than your neighbour chooses."
"Danish","You cannot drink and whistle at the same time."
"Danish","You can't take a cow from a man who has no cows."
"Danish","You cannot take a cow from a man who has none."
"Danish","You must howl with the wolves when you are among them."
"Danish","It is better to scrape the cheese than to peel it."
"Danish","Your friendship is your needs answered."
"Danish","Young pigs grunt as old swine grunted before them."
"Danish","Young pigs grunt as old pigs grunted before them."
"Danish","Young pigs grunt as as old pigs grunted before them."
"Danish","Young people must be taught, old ones be honoured."
"Danish","Young dogs have sharp teeth."
"Danish","You must walk a long while behind a wild goose before you find an ostrich feather."
"Danish","You must lose a fly, to catch a trout."
"Danish","You may force an ox to the water, but you cannot make him drink."
"Danish","You must judge a maiden at the kneading trough, and not in a dance."
"Danish","You can have no more of the fox than his skin."
"Danish","You must have good luck to catch hares with a drum."
"Danish","You must contrive to bake with the flour you have."
"Danish","You must be strong to pull a rope against a stronger."
"Danish","You may take a horse to the water, but you can't make him drink."
"Danish","You may speak with your gold and make other tongues silent."
"Danish","You may shut your doors against a thief, but not against a liar."
"Danish","You may preach ever so long to the wolf, he will nevertheless call for the lamb before night."
"Danish","You may often feel that heavily on your back which you took lightly on your conscience."
"Danish","You may light another's candle at your own without loss."
"Danish","You must knock a long while against an alder-bush before you get a swarm of bees out of it."
"Danish","When the mouse has had enough the meal is bitter."
"Danish","When you go to dance, take heed whom you take by the hand."
"Danish","When wisdom fails, luck helps."
"Danish","When two enemies blow one horn, the third will have to suffer for it."
"Danish","When thieves fall out the peasant recovers his goods."
"Danish","When there is room in the heart, there is room in the house."
"Danish","When the wound is healed the pain is forgotten."
"Danish","When the word is in the mouth you must caress the sheath."
"Danish","When the wolf's ears appear, his body is not far off."
"Danish","When the waggon is tilting everybody gives it a shove."
"Danish","You can judge a man by the company he keeps."
"Danish","When the rooks are silent the swans begin to sing."
"Danish","Where money and counsel are wanting, it is best not to make war."
"Danish","When the master hurts his foot the servants limp."
"Danish","When the manger is empty the horses fight."
"Danish","When the host smiles most blandly he has an eye to the guest's purse."
"Danish","When the helm is gone the ship will soon be wrecked."
"Danish","When the head aches all the limbs ache."
"Danish","When the government has no ears to listen with, then she has no head for governing."
"Danish","When the gorse is out of bloom, kissing's out of fashion."
"Danish","When the goose trusts the fox then woe to her neck."
"Danish","When the going gets tough, the tough get going."
"Danish","When the tree falls every one runs to gather sticks."
"Danish","Who leaves a son isn't really dead."
"Danish","Time waits for no man."
"Danish","Words once spoken cannot be wiped out with a sponge."
"Danish","Wolves are often hidden under sheep's clothing."
"Danish","Woe be to him whose advocate becomes his accuser."
"Danish","Woe be to an evil eye."
"Danish","Without eating and drinking the hero is no good."
"Danish","With law must the land be built."
"Danish","Wise men do not quarrel with each other."
"Danish","Wise care keeps what it has gained."
"Danish","Where a man never goes, there his head will never be washed."
"Danish","Wisdom is the least burdensome travelling pack."
"Danish","Where law lacks, honour should eke it out."
"Danish","While the great bells are ringing no one hears the little ones."
"Danish","While the grass is growing the mare dies."
"Danish","While the dogs yelp, the hare flies to the wood."
"Danish","Where you cannot climb over, you must creep under."
"Danish","Where will is right, law is banished."
"Danish","Where there is no wit within no wit will come out."
"Danish","Where there is discipline there is virtue; where there is peace there is plenty."
"Danish","Where there is action, there is waste."
"Danish","Where the carrion is, there the eagles gather."
"Danish","You can have too much of a good thing."
"Danish","Wisdom rides upon the ruins of folly."
"Danish","The fox does not go twice into the same trap."
"Danish","Time works wonders."
"Danish","The hen lives by pickings, as the lion by prey."
"Danish","The hen is ill off when the egg teaches her how to cackle."
"Danish","The hen flies not far unless the cock flies with her."
"Danish","The ground is always frozen for the lazy swine."
"Danish","The greater the fear the nearer the danger."
"Danish","The grass is always greener on the other side."
"Danish","The goose that has lost its head no longer cackles."
"Danish","The goose that has a good gander cackles loudly."
"Danish","The heron blames the water because he cannot swim."
"Danish","The generous man grows rich in giving, the miser poor in taking."
"Danish","The horse must go to the manger, and not the manger to the horse."
"Danish","The forest has ears, and field has eyes."
"Danish","The foot of the owner is the best manure for his land."
"Danish","The foot of the farmer manures the field."
"Danish","The flitch hangs never so high but a dog will look out for the bone."
"Danish","The flame is not far from the smoke."
"Danish","The first bird get the first grain."
"Danish","The fire is welcome within, when icicles hang without."
"Danish","The fire heeds little whose cloak it burns."
"Danish","The fire doesn't care about the owner of the coat that is burning."
"Danish","The goose goes so often into the kitchen, till at last she sticks to the spit."
"Danish","The miller is never so drunk that he forgets to take his dues."
"Danish","The mouse may find a hole, be the room ever so full of cats."
"Danish","The mouse is knowing, but the cat more knowing."
"Danish","The most difficult mountain to cross is the threshold."
"Danish","The morning hour has gold in its mouth."
"Danish","The more you stir filth the worse it stinks."
"Danish","The more shepherds the less care."
"Danish","The more knave, the better luck."
"Danish","The more cooks, the worse broth."
"Danish","The more by law, the less by right."
"Danish","The herb patience does not grow in every man's garden."
"Danish","The millstone that lies undermost also helps to grind."
"Danish","The fall of a leaf is a whisper to the living."
"Danish","The master derives from his art."
"Danish","The man who is born in a stable is not a horse."
"Danish","The man who is afraid of asking is ashamed of learning."
"Danish","The man loves with his head, the woman thinks with her heart."
"Danish","The Lord will not fail to come, though he may not come on horseback."
"Danish","The laggard cow gets the sour grass."
"Danish","The issue of all contention is uncertain."
"Danish","The is worthy of sweets, who has tasted bitters."
"Danish","The horse that you love draws more than four oxen."
"Danish","The miser's bag is never full."
"Danish","The anvil does not fear a good sledge-hammer."
"Danish","The cock often crows without a victory."
"Danish","The church is an anvil which has worn out many hammers."
"Danish","The child who gets a stepmother also gets a stepfather."
"Danish","The chair on which a Dane is sitting is beautifully decorated."
"Danish","The branch must be bent early that is to make a good crook."
"Danish","The branch is seldom better than the stem."
"Danish","The bow may be bent until it breaks."
"Danish","The bird once out of hand is hard to recover."
"Danish","The best manure is under the farmer's shoe."
"Danish","The fire burns brightest on one's own hearth."
"Danish","The belly gives no credit."
"Danish","The cow gives good milk, but kicks over the pail."
"Danish","The air is no less blue because the blind man doesn't see it."
"Danish","The aged in council--the young in action."
"Danish","The aged in council, the young in action."
"Danish","The absent are always to blame."
"Danish","Thaw reveals what has been hidden by snow."
"Danish","That's but an empty purse which is full of other men's money."
"Danish","That which one most forehets soonest comes to pass."
"Danish","That which must be, will be."
"Danish","That which is unsaid, may be spoken; that which is said, cannot be unsaid."
"Danish","The best advice is found on the pillow."
"Danish","The dog that is forced into the woods will not hunt many deer."
"Danish","The next mile is the only one a person really has to make."
"Danish","The eye of the master will do more than both his hands."
"Danish","The eye of the master makes the horse fat."
"Danish","The eye of the master does more than his two hands."
"Danish","The endless saver always lives in poverty."
"Danish","The earthen pan gains nothing by contact with the copper pot."
"Danish","The earth is always frozen to lazy swine."
"Danish","The drunken man's joy is often the sober man's sorrow."
"Danish","The dog's kennel is not the place to keep a sausage."
"Danish","The corn that is taken to a bad mill. will be badly ground."
"Danish","The dog will not get free by biting his chain."
"Danish","The cow does not know the value of her tail till she has lost it."
"Danish","The dearer the child, the sharper must be the rod."
"Danish","The day is sure to come when the cow will want her tail."
"Danish","The day is never so holy that the pot refuses to boil."
"Danish","The customer is always right."
"Danish","The curse on the hearth wounds the deepest."
"Danish","The crust is part of the loaf."
"Danish","The crow will find its mate."
"Danish","The cow knows not what her tail is worth until she has lost it."
"Danish","The cow is milked, not the ox; the sheep is shorn, not the horse."
"Danish","The fat sow knows not what the hungry sow suffers."
"Danish","The dog's kennel is no place to keep a sausage."
"Danish","There are many days in the year, and still more meals."
"Danish","There is no need to fasten a bell to a fool, he is sure to tell his own tale."
"Danish","There is no need to blow what does not burn you."
"Danish","There is no fishing for trout in dry breeches."
"Danish","There is no fire without smoke."
"Danish","There is no cure against a slanderer's bite."
"Danish","There is honour among thieves."
"Danish","There is honor among thieves."
"Danish","There is help for everything, except death."
"Danish","There are three things from which no good can be got without a beating: a walnut-tree, a donkey, and a shrew."
"Danish","The upright never grow rich in a hurry."
"Danish","There are simple remedies for sausages that are too long."
"Danish","There is nothing new under the sun."
"Danish","The young pig must often suffer for what the old sow did."
"Danish","The year has a wide mouth and a big belly."
"Danish","The wolf preys not in his own field."
"Danish","The wet branch burns better than the dry stone."
"Danish","The water runs while the miller sleeps."
"Danish","The watch-dog does not get sweet milk unless there be drowned mice in it."
"Danish","The waggon must go whither the horses draw it."
"Danish","The used plough shines, standing water stinks."
"Danish","The mouth often utters that which the head must answer for."
"Danish","There are three bad neighbours: great rivers, great lords, and great roads."
"Danish","Though the ass may carry a sack of gold, it nevertheless feeds on thistles."
"Danish","That which is stamped a penny will never be a pound."
"Danish","Time is not tied to a post, like a horse to the manger."
"Danish","Thundershowers and great men's favour are always partial."
"Danish","Throw not thy hatchet at the Lord, He will turn the sharp edge against thee."
"Danish","Throw not the child out with the bath."
"Danish","Throw no stones at a sleeping dog."
"Danish","Three women and a goose make a market."
"Danish","Though your enemy is the size of an ant, look upon him as an elephant."
"Danish","Though you teach a wolf the paternoster, he will say ""Lamb! Lamb!"""
"Danish","There is no use in blowing a fire that burns well."
"Danish","Though the bird may fly over your head, let it not make its nest in your hair."
"Danish","There is no virtue in a promise unless it be kept."
"Danish","Those who climb high, often have a fall."
"Danish","Things never go so well that someone should have no fear, nor so bad that someone should have no hope."
"Danish","They who do not wash well, do not bleach well."
"Danish","They must stand high who would see their own destiny."
"Danish","They brag most of their ancestors who are unworthy of them."
"Danish","They are most cheated who cheat themselves."
"Danish","There's many a slip, 'Twixt the cup and the lip."
"Danish","There's many a knave concealed under a surplice."
"Danish","There were never fewer nobles than when all would be so."
"Danish","The tree is sure to be pruned before it reaches the skies."
"Danish","Though the bird's in the net It may get away yet."
"Danish","The pike grows big on small fry."
"Danish","The raven is fair when the rook is not by."
"Danish","The raven chides blackness."
"Danish","The raven always thinks that her young ones are the whitest."
"Danish","The priest to his book, the peasant to his plough."
"Danish","The pride of the poor does not endure."
"Danish","The pot calls the kettle black."
"Danish","The pot boils best on your own hearth."
"Danish","The poor man's corm always grows thin."
"Danish","The poor man wants much, the miser everything."
"Danish","The used key is always bright."
"Danish","The poor man seeks for food, the rich man for appetite."
"Danish","The road to heaven is equally short, where'er we die."
"Danish","The person who loves sorrow will always find something to moan about."
"Danish","The owl thinks her children the fairest."
"Danish","The owl does not praise the light, nor the wolf the dog."
"Danish","The one you love you punish."
"Danish","The one who laughs last is the one who laughs best."
"Danish","The old branch breaks when it is bent."
"Danish","The oft-moved stone gathers no moss."
"Danish","The nobler the blood, the less the pride."
"Danish","Time will tell."
"Danish","The poor man seeks only a crumb, then finds he still hungers."
"Danish","The sleeping fox catches no poultry."
"Danish","The tooth often bites the tongue, and yet they keep together."
"Danish","The teeth often bite the tongue, still the two stay together."
"Danish","The teeth of the puppy are growing, while the old dog is gnawing bones."
"Danish","The sword keeps the peace of the land."
"Danish","The strongest among the weak is the one who doesn't forget his weaknesses."
"Danish","The stone that is not in your way does not bother you."
"Danish","The stone that everybody spits upon will be wet at the last."
"Danish","The sting of a reproach is the truth of it."
"Danish","The still swine eat the mash. the wind ones run past it."
"Danish","The rich widow's tears soon dry."
"Danish","The sow prefers the mire."
"Danish","The road to a friend's house is never long."
"Danish","The sky is not the less blue because the blind man does not see it."
"Danish","The silent man is most trusted."
"Danish","The shoemakers children go barefoot."
"Danish","The shoemaker's son always goes barefoot."
"Danish","The shirt is nearer to the body than the coat."
"Danish","The sheep that bleat the most give the least milk."
"Danish","The scraping hen will get something; the crouching hen nothing."
"Danish","The scoffer's own house is often on fire."
"Danish","The road to hell is paved with good intentions."
"Danish","The new is always liked, though the old is often better."
"Danish","The steps at court are slippery."
"Danish","Better a daughter that has been slept on than a son who has been hanged."
"Danish","Better to light a candle than to curse the darkness."
"Danish","Better blow hard than burn yourself."
"Danish","Better be convinced by words than by blows."
"Danish","Better ask twice than to lose your way once."
"Danish","Better ask twice than lose your way once."
"Danish","Better an open enemy than a false friend."
"Danish","Better a salt herring on your own table, than a fresh pike on another man's."
"Danish","Better a poor horse than an empty stall."
"Danish","Better a little in peace and with right, than much with anxiety and strife."
"Danish","Better come late to church than never."
"Danish","Better a friend's bite than an enemy's caress."
"Danish","Better cross an angry man than a fasting man."
"Danish","Better a bite from a friend than a caress from an enemy."
"Danish","Benefits, like flowers, please most when they are fresh."
"Danish","Benefits please like flowers, when they are fresh."
"Danish","Benefits grow old betimes, but injuries are long livers."
"Danish","Bend the willow while it is young."
"Danish","Before a man learns to hang he is half dead."
"Danish","Beauty without virtue is like a rose without scent."
"Danish","Beauty without honesty is like a rose without perfume."
"Danish","Beauty is a fading flower."
"Danish","Better a little furniture than an empty house."
"Danish","Better poor on land than rich at sea."
"Danish","Every day hath its night, every weal its woe."
"Danish","Better to deny at once, than to promise long."
"Danish","Better to be a free bird than a captive king."
"Danish","Better to ask twice than to lose your way once."
"Danish","Better thin beer than an empty jug."
"Danish","Better the world should know you as a sinner than God know you as a hypocrite."
"Danish","Better the child cry, than the mother sigh."
"Danish","Better the child cry than the old man."
"Danish","Better suffer for the truth than prosper in a falsehood."
"Danish","Better coarse cloth than naked thighs."
"Danish","Better something on the arm than all in the stomach."
"Danish","Bad is never good until worse happens."
"Danish","Better one poor horse than an empty stall."
"Danish","Better one cow in peace than seven in trouble."
"Danish","Better no law, than law not enforced."
"Danish","Better make a short circuit than to wet your hose."
"Danish","Better lose the anchor than the whole ship."
"Danish","Better is the evil known than the good which is yet to know."
"Danish","Better is the branch that bends, than the branch that breaks."
"Danish","Better in an old carriage than in a new ship."
"Danish","Better half a loaf than none at all."
"Danish","Better spare at the brim that at the bottom."
"Danish","Always to be sparing is always to be in want."
"Danish","An old man's sayings are seldom untrue."
"Danish","An old fool is worse than a young simpleton."
"Danish","An old error has more friends than a new truth."
"Danish","An ill-tempered woman is the devil's door-nail."
"Danish","An ill-tempered dog has a scarred nose."
"Danish","An honest man is not the worse because a dog barks at him."
"Danish","An honest man does not make himself a dog for the sake of a bone."
"Danish","An evil eye can see no good."
"Danish","An evil deed has a witness in the bosom."
"Danish","Beauty draws with a single hair."
"Danish","Ambition and revenge are always hungry."
"Danish","And Nathan said unto David: ""Thou art the man."""
"Danish","Along in counsel, alone in sorrow."
"Danish","Alms do not empty the purse, and a mass does not exhaust the day's duty."
"Danish","Almost kills no man."
"Danish","All women may be won."
"Danish","All women are good Lutherans, they would rather preach than hear mass."
"Danish","All wish to live long, but none to be called old."
"Danish","All who snore are not asleep."
"Danish","All water flows into the ocean or into the purse of the rich."
"Danish","All keys hang not on one girdle."
"Danish","An empty cellar makes an angry butler."
"Danish","As the man is, so is his language."
"Danish","Better twice measured than once wrong."
"Danish","At court they sell a good deal of smoke without fire."
"Danish","Ask advice only of your equals."
"Danish","Ask advice of your equals, help of your superiors."
"Danish","As you make your bed so you must lie upon it."
"Danish","As water runs towards the sword money towards the rich man's hand."
"Danish","As the virtue in the tree, such is the fruit."
"Danish","As the saying goes."
"Danish","As the old ones sing, the young ones twitter."
"Danish","An old wolf is not scared by loud cries."
"Danish","As the man is, so is his speech."
"Danish","An unpleasant guest is as welcome as salt to a sore eye."
"Danish","As a man dresses so is he esteemed."
"Danish","Art is long and life is short."
"Danish","Art is art, even though unsuccessful."
"Danish","Art finds its food everywhere."
"Danish","Art and knowledge bring bread and honour."
"Danish","Another year will bring another Christmas."
"Danish","Another man's horse and your own whip can do a great deal."
"Danish","Another man's burden is always light."
"Danish","And Nathan said unto David: ""Thou art the man."""
"Danish","Beauty carries its dower in its face."
"Danish","As the master is, so are his men."
"Danish","Do not keep secret from your friend what your enemy already knows."
"Danish","Better to have something yourself, than to beg of your sister."
"Danish","Donkeys only come to the court to carry bags."
"Danish","Don't throw rocks if you live in a house of glass."
"Danish","Don't throw away dirty water before you have more clean water."
"Danish","Don't stop sowing just because the birds ate a few seeds."
"Danish","Don't sell the skin till you have caught the fox."
"Danish","Don't sell the fur before shooting the bear."
"Danish","Don't praise the bread that is not out of the oven."
"Danish","Do not wade where you see no bottom."
"Danish","Drive not too many ploughs at once, some will make foul work."
"Danish","Do not put in more warp than you can weave."
"Danish","Drive the nail that will go."
"Danish","Do not judge your friend until you stand in his place."
"Danish","Do not judge the dog by his hairs."
"Danish","Do not hide your light under a bushel."
"Danish","Do good to a knave, and pray God he may not do the same to thee."
"Danish","Do as you would be done by."
"Danish","Do as others do, and few will mock you."
"Danish","Distrust is poison to friendship."
"Danish","Diligent work makes a skilful workman."
"Danish","Despise not a small wound, a poor kinsman, or an humble enemy."
"Danish","Do not wade where you can see no bottom."
"Danish","Envy does not enter empty houses."
"Danish","Every day has its evening."
"Danish","Every bird needs its own feathers."
"Danish","Even that fish may be caught that strives the hardest against it."
"Danish","Even he gets on who is drawn by oxen."
"Danish","Even doubtful accusations leave a stain behind them."
"Danish","Even crumbs are bread."
"Danish","Even clever hens sometimes lay their eggs among nettles."
"Danish","Even a small star shines in the darkness."
"Danish","equal children play best."
"Danish","Drive not away what never came near you."
"Danish","Envy is its own torturer."
"Danish","Deceit is in haste, but honesty can wait a fair leisure."
"Danish","Envy does not enter an empty house."
"Danish","Enough is great riches."
"Danish","Empty waggons make most noise."
"Danish","Empty barrels rattle the most."
"Danish","Empty barrels give the most sound."
"Danish","Eggs and oaths are easily broken."
"Danish","Earnestness and sport go well together."
"Danish","Dull scissors make crooked-mouthed tailors."
"Danish","Dry wood makes a quick fire."
"Danish","Envy was never a good spokesman."
"Danish","Big words seldom go with good deeds."
"Danish","By gnawing skin a dog learns to eat leather."
"Danish","Buy in the cheapest market and sell in the dearest."
"Danish","Buy him at his own price and sell him at yours and you'll make no bargain."
"Danish","Butter spoils no meat, and moderation injures no cause."
"Danish","Break one link and the whole chain falls apart."
"Danish","Bread is better than the song of birds."
"Danish","Blind hen also finds grains."
"Danish","Blame it on the rain."
"Danish","Blame is the lazy man's wages."
"Danish","Deep rivers move with silent majesty, shallow brooks are noisy."
"Danish","Bite not the dog that bites."
"Danish","Chastise a good child, that it may not grow bad, and a bad one, that it may not grow worse."
"Danish","Big words seldom accompany good deeds."
"Danish","Beware, froth is not beer."
"Danish","Beware of the dog himself, his shadow does not bite."
"Danish","Between saying and doing there is a great distance."
"Danish","Between evil tongues and evil ears, there is nothing to choose."
"Danish","Better whole than patched in gold."
"Danish","Better weak beer than an empty cask."
"Danish","Better walk unshackled in a green meadow, than be bound to a thorn-brush."
"Danish","Better walk on wooden legs, than be carried on a wooden bier."
"Danish","Blacksmith's children are not afraid of sparks."
"Danish","Communicate more with yourself than you do with others."
"Danish","All but saves many a man."
"Danish","Deceit and treachery make no man rich."
"Danish","Death does not sound a trumpet."
"Danish","Death does not look at your teeth."
"Danish","Death does not blow a trumpet."
"Danish","Daylight will come, though the cock do not crow."
"Danish","Damage suffered makes you knowing, but seldom rich."
"Danish","Cunning has little honour."
"Danish","Crooked iron may be straightened with a hammer."
"Danish","Call not the devil, he will come fast enough unbidden."
"Danish","Correction is good when administered in time."
"Danish","Care, and not fine stables, make a good horse."
"Danish","Chop, and you will have splinters."
"Danish","Children are the riches of the poor."
"Danish","Children are certain sorrow, but uncertain joy."
"Danish","Children are certain cares, but uncertain comforts."
"Danish","Children are a poor man's wealth."
"Danish","Children are a poor man's riches."
"Danish","Children and fools Shouldn't play with edged tools."
"Danish","Children and drunken men speak the truth."
"Danish","Cheerfulness and goodwill make labour light."
"Danish","Deep draughts, and long morning slumbers, soon make a man poor."
"Danish","Counsel after action is like rain after harvest."
"Danish","A fat man is worthless in the fields."
"Danish","All keys hang not at one woman's girdle."
"Danish","A full vessel must be carried carefully."
"Danish","A full stomach praises Lent."
"Danish","A full belly dances better than a fine coat."
"Danish","A friend's frown is better than a fool's smile."
"Danish","A friend's faults may be notices, but not blamed."
"Danish","A foul mouth must be provided with a strong back."
"Danish","A fool only wins the first game."
"Danish","A fool laughs when others laugh."
"Danish","A golden key opens every door except that of heaven."
"Danish","A fool is like all other men as long as he remains silent."
"Danish","A good example is like a bell that calls many to church."
"Danish","A fair skin often covers a crooked mind."
"Danish","A fair face will get its praise, though the owner keep silent."
"Danish","A fair exchange is no robbery."
"Danish","A fair exchange brings no quarrel."
"Danish","A duck will not always dabble in the same gutter."
"Danish","A drunken night makes a cloudy morning."
"Danish","A drunken may soon be made to dance."
"Danish","A drunkard can be a sheep, a monkey or a lion."
"Danish","A donkey that carries a lot of books is not necessarily learned."
"Danish","A fool is like other men as long as he is silent."
"Danish","A gross belly does not produce a refined mind."
"Danish","A lazy boy and a warm bed are difficult to part."
"Danish","A lass that has many wooers often fares the worst."
"Danish","A large fire often comes from a small spark."
"Danish","A joyous evening often leads to a sorrowful morning."
"Danish","A hungry dog and a thirsty horse take no heed of blows."
"Danish","A hundred waggonsful of sorrow will not pay a handful of debt."
"Danish","A hearth of your own is worth gold."
"Danish","A headstrong man and a fool may wear the same cap."
"Danish","A headless army fights badly."
"Danish","A glad heart seldom sighs, but a sorrowful mouth often laughs."
"Danish","A hard bit does not make the better horse."
"Danish","A deaf auditor makes a crazy answerer."
"Danish","A green Yule makes a fat churchyard."
"Danish","A green Christmas makes a fat churchyard."
"Danish","A greedy mill grinds all kinds of corn."
"Danish","A goose drinks as much as a gander."
"Danish","A good plan today is better than a perfect plan tomorrow."
"Danish","A good pilot is not known when the sea is calm and the weather fair."
"Danish","A good neighbour is better than a brother far off."
"Danish","A good king is better than an old law."
"Danish","A good handicraft has a golden foundation."
"Danish","A head is not to be cut off because it is scabby."
"Danish","Ladies have ladies' whims. said crazy Ann, when she draggled her cloak in the gutter."
"Danish","A bird never flew on one wing."
"Danish","A bird may be ever so small, it always seeks a nest of its own."
"Danish","A beautiful face is admired even when its owner doesn't say anything."
"Danish","A barren sow is never kind to pigs."
"Danish","A bad wife wishes her husband's heel turned homewards, and not his toe."
"Danish","A bad tree does not yield good apples."
"Danish","A bad horse eats as much as a good one."
"Danish","A bad hair cut is two people's shame."
"Danish","'Almost' does not push a man off his horse."
"Danish","A dog is a dog whatever his colour."
"Danish","Own kin are the worst friends, said the fox, when he saw the foxy dogs after him."
"Danish","A bold attempt is half success."
"Danish","It will come back, said the man, when he gave his sow pork."
"Danish","It is not for my own sake, said the fox, ""that I say there is a good goose-green in the wood."""
"Danish","It is easy to work with a good comb, said the devil, when he combed his mother's hair with a pitchfork."""
"Danish","If `almost' did not exist, said the woman, ""than I would have shot a hare."""
"Danish","I'll go myself, and ""I'll see to it,"" are two good servants on a farm."
"Danish","I am a judge of cresses, said the peasant, as he was eating hemlock."
"Danish","Fie upon thee, how black thou art! said the kettle to the saucepan."
"Danish","Almost a hit, said the boy as he threw the stone at his dog and hit his stepmother's leg."
"Danish","It is better to make conditions in the bush than in prison."
"Danish","Peter, I am taking a ride, said the goose, when the fox was running into the wood with her."
"Danish","A child's sorrow is short-lived."
"Danish","A little stone may upset a large cart."
"Danish","A customary railer is the devil's bagpipe, which the world danceth after."
"Danish","A cursed cur should be short tied."
"Danish","A curse will not strike out an eye, unless the fist go with it."
"Danish","A crowd is not company."
"Danish","A crow thinks her own bird fairest."
"Danish","A crow is never the whiter for often washing."
"Danish","A cross-grained woman and a snappish dog take care of the house."
"Danish","A cow is not called dappled unless she has a spot."
"Danish","A blind crow may sometimes find a grain of wheat."
"Danish","A clean hand moves freely through the land."
"Danish","A blind pigeon may sometimes find a grain of wheat."
"Danish","A child's back must be bent early."
"Danish","A child must creep until it learns to walk."
"Danish","A chain is as strong as its weakest link."
"Danish","A burnt child fears the fire, and a bitten child fears a dog."
"Danish","A bow long bent at length waxeth weak."
"Danish","A borrowed horse and your own spurs make short miles."
"Danish","A boor remains a boor, though he sleep on silken bolsters."
"Danish","A boor remains a boor even if sleeping on silken pillows."
"Danish","A bold man has luck in his train."
"Danish","A deaf husband and a blind wife will always make a happy couple."
"Danish","A clever man's inheritance is found in every country."
"Danish","A thief thinks every man steals."
"Danish","A woman may be ever so old, if she take fire she will jump."
"Danish","A wise lawyer never goes to law himself."
"Danish","A wise head makes a close mouth."
"Danish","A wise head hath a close mouth to it."
"Danish","A wise falcon hides his talons."
"Danish","A willing helper does not wait until he is asked."
"Danish","A truth-telling woman has few friends."
"Danish","A truth-teller finds the doors closed against him."
"Danish","A tottering man must lean upon a staff."
"Danish","A small cloud may hide both sun and moon."
"Danish","A threatened man lives long, if he can get bread."
"Danish","A young foal and an old horse draw not well together."
"Danish","A thief does not willingly see another carry a basket."
"Danish","A thankless man never does a thankful deed."
"Danish","A stern chase is a long chase."
"Danish","A stepmother has a hard hand."
"Danish","A sparrow suffers as much when it breaks its leg as does a Flanders horse."
"Danish","A sow may whistle, though it has an ill mouth for it."
"Danish","A sow may find an acorn as well as a hog."
"Danish","A smooth tongue is better than smooth locks."
"Danish","A lean calf forgets to skip."
"Danish","A timid man has little chance."
"Danish","Advice after injury is like medicine after death."
"Danish","Don't sail out farther than you can row back."
"Danish","All are not hunters that blow the horn."
"Danish","All are not good cooks who carry long knives."
"Danish","Age may wrinkle the face, but lack of enthusiasm wrinkles the soul."
"Danish","Age makes many a man whiter, but not better."
"Danish","Age is a sorry travelling companion."
"Danish","After pleasant scratching comes unpleasant smarting."
"Danish","After one that earns one that wastes."
"Danish","Advice to a fool goes in one ear and out the other."
"Danish","A woman's first counsel is the best."
"Danish","Advice after the mischief is like medicine after death."
"Danish","A wound never heals so well that the scar cannot be seen."
"Danish","Adam got a hoe, and Eve got a spinning-wheel, and thence come all our nobles."
"Danish","Act so in the valley, that you need not fear those who stand on the hill."
"Danish","Act in the valley so that you need not fear those who stand on the hill."
"Danish","Act honestly, and answer boldly."
"Danish","According to his pinions the bird flies."
"Danish","Abstinence and fasting cure many a complaint."
"Danish","A young preacher, a new hell."
"Danish","A young man married is a young man marred."
"Danish","A young man idle, an old man needy."
"Danish","A small bolt to the house is better than none at all."
"Danish","Advice to a fool goes in at one ear and out at the other."
"Danish","A man is not a lord because he feeds off fine dishes."
"Danish","A neighbour's eye is full of jealousy."
"Danish","A naughty child must be roughly rocked."
"Danish","A moneyless man goes fast through the market."
"Danish","A modest dog seldom grows fat."
"Danish","A meagre compromise is better than a fat lawsuit."
"Danish","A man's word is his honour."
"Danish","A man's will is his heaven."
"Danish","A man's character reaches town before his person."
"Danish","A man who is not spoken of is not abused."
"Danish","A small fire that warms you, is better than a large one that burns you."
"Danish","A man must keep his mouth open a long while before a roast pigeon files into it."
"Danish","A person must stand very tall to see their own fate."
"Danish","A man is bound by his word, an ox with a hempen cord."
"Danish","A man has two ears and one mouth; he therefore should listen more than he talks."
"Danish","A man does not look behind the door unless he has stood there himself."
"Danish","A man does not always aim at what he means to hit."
"Danish","A man dances all the same, though he may dance against his will."
"Danish","A man conducts himself abroad as he has been taught at home."
"Danish","A man cannot carry all his kin on his back."
"Danish","A lord without land, is like a cask without wine."
"Danish","All hairy skins must not be singed."
"Danish","A man often kisses the hand he would like to see cut off."
"Danish","A rickety chair will not long serve as a seat."
"Danish","A slip of the foot may soon be recovered; but that of the tongue perhaps never."
"Danish","A slight suspicion may destroy a good repute."
"Danish","A single bag of money is stronger than two bags of truth."
"Danish","A silly song may be sung in many ways."
"Danish","A silent man's words are not brought into court."
"Danish","A short rest is always good."
"Danish","A short cut is often a wrong cut."
"Danish","A ship on the beach is a lighthouse to the sea."
"Danish","A scald head need strong lye."
"Danish","A pair of light shoes is not all that is needed for dancing."
"Danish","A rod is better than a fox's brush."
"Danish","A penny in time is as good as a dollar."
"Danish","A rich wife is a source of quarrel."
"Danish","A rich child often sits in a poor mother's lap."
"Danish","A princely mind will undo a private family."
"Danish","A priest's pocket is not easily filled."
"Danish","A poor man's joy has much alloy."
"Danish","A poor man has few acquaintances."
"Danish","A pleasant think never comes too soon."
"Danish","A pet child has many names."
"Danish","A person's character reaches town before the person does."
"Danish","A little dog, a cow without horns, and a short man, are generally proud."
"Danish","A royal heart is often hid under a tattered cloak."
"Danish","He who speaks ill of himself is praised by no one."
"Danish","He that was born under a three-halfpenny planet shall never be worth twopence."
"Danish","He who waits for a dead man's shoes is in danger of going barefoot."
"Danish","He who tickles himself can laugh when he pleases."
"Danish","He who throws himself under the bench will be left to lie there."
"Danish","He who tastes every man's broth, often burns his mouth."
"Danish","He who takes the child by the hand, takes the mother by the heart."
"Danish","He who takes no chances wins nothing."
"Danish","He who strikes another on the neck, does not strike far from the head."
"Danish","He who stands near the woodcutter is likely to be hit by a splinter."
"Danish","He who wants to catch foxes must hunt with geese."
"Danish","He who spends more than he should Shall not have to spend when he would."
"Danish","He who wants to jump high must take a long run."
"Danish","He who sows peas on the highway does not get all the pods into his barn."
"Danish","He who sows money, will reap poverty."
"Danish","He who sows little, reaps little."
"Danish","He who sows inequity shall reap shame."
"Danish","He who sows hatred shall gather rue."
"Danish","He who rises early will gather wisdom."
"Danish","He who rides the horse is his master."
"Danish","He who puts by for the night, puts by for the cat."
"Danish","He who marries a widow with three children, marries four thieves."
"Danish","He who stands high is seen from afar."
"Danish","He who would buy sausage of a dog must give him bacon in exchange."
"Danish","He who would save, should begin with the mouth."
"Danish","He who would not go to hell, must not go to court."
"Danish","He who would make a fool of himself will find many to like him."
"Danish","He who would leap high must take a long run."
"Danish","He who would leap far must first take a long run."
"Danish","He who would have good cabbage, must pay its price."
"Danish","He who would hang himself is sure to find a rope."
"Danish","He who would enjoy the fire must bear its smoke."
"Danish","He who would eat the kernel, must crack the nut."
"Danish","He who waits for dead men's shoes, may have to go long barefoot."
"Danish","He who would close another man's mouth, should first tie up his own."
"Danish","He who lies down in the wash will be eaten by swine."
"Danish","He who would be everywhere will be nowhere."
"Danish","He who wills the end, wills the means."
"Danish","He who will not take cheap advice, will have to buy dear repentance."
"Danish","He who will not prosper in his sleep will not prosper when awake."
"Danish","He who will not obey father, will have to obey stepfather."
"Danish","He who whispers, lies."
"Danish","He who was born to pennies, will never be master of dollars."
"Danish","He who was born to be hanged will not be drowned, unless the water go over the gallows."
"Danish","He who wants to tell the truth will always stand before closed doors."
"Danish","He who would drive another over three dikes must climb over two himself."
"Danish","He who does look before him, must take misfortune for his earnings."
"Danish","He who has a white horse and a fair wife is seldom without trouble."
"Danish","He who has a good neighbour has a good morning."
"Danish","He who has a glass roof on his own house, must not throw stones at others."
"Danish","He who gives to me teaches me to give."
"Danish","He who flees, proves himself guilty."
"Danish","He who feels himself scabby, let him scratch."
"Danish","He who feeds the hen out to have the egg."
"Danish","He who feeds the hen ought to have the egg."
"Danish","He who feeds a wolf, strengthens his enemy."
"Danish","He who loves sorrow, will always find something to mourn over."
"Danish","He who doesn't open his eyes when he buys must still open his purse to pay."
"Danish","He who has many irons in the fire, will let some of them burn."
"Danish","He who despises small things seldom grows rich."
"Danish","He who comforts never has a headache."
"Danish","He who comes first to the mill is first served."
"Danish","He who can't get bacon, must be content with cabbage."
"Danish","He who can sit upon a stone and feed himself should not move."
"Danish","He who builds to every man's advice will have a crooked house."
"Danish","He who builds according to every man's advise will have a crooked house."
"Danish","He who abuses others must not be particular about the answer he gets."
"Danish","He that you seat upon your shoulder will often try to get upon your head."
"Danish","He who eats cherries with gentlemen risks getting the pips in his nose."
"Danish","He who is everywhere, is nowhere."
"Danish","He who would steal honey, must not be afraid of bees."
"Danish","He who lets another sit on his shoulder will soon have him on his head."
"Danish","He who leaps high must take a long run."
"Danish","He who laughs last, laughs longest."
"Danish","He who laughs last, laughs best."
"Danish","He who knows how to beg may leave his money at home."
"Danish","He who knows a knave, makes no bid for him."
"Danish","He who is scared by words, has no heart for deeds."
"Danish","He who is of no use to himself, is of no use to any one."
"Danish","He who has bad neighbours is fain to praise himself."
"Danish","He who is far from home, is near to harm."
"Danish","He who has been bitten by a snake is afraid of an eel."
"Danish","He who is ashamed of asking, is ashamed of learning."
"Danish","He who is afraid to ask is ashamed of learning."
"Danish","Don't judge the dog by its fur."
"Danish","He who hunts with cats will catch mice."
"Danish","Every foal is not like its sire."
"Danish","He who hesitates is lost."
"Danish","He who herds with wolves, learns to howl."
"Danish","He who has plenty of butter, may put some in his cabbage."
"Danish","He who has no falcon must hunt with an owl."
"Danish","He who lives without restraint, will die without honour."
"Danish","He who is fed by another's hand seldom gets enough."
"Danish","In still waters are the largest fish."
"Danish","It is a bad well that need water to be carried to it."
"Danish","It is a bad sheep that is too lazy to carry its own fleece."
"Danish","It is a bad idea to take a thorn out of someone else's foot and put it into your own."
"Danish","It is a bad hen that lays her eggs away from the farm."
"Danish","It is a bad hand that refuses to guard the head."
"Danish","It has been blowing hard--the dirt has been blown into high places."
"Danish","It does not depend upon the dog when the horse shall die."
"Danish","It does not become the sparrow to mix in the dance of the cranes."
"Danish","In war it is best to tie your horse to a strange manger."
"Danish","If you hunt with cats you'll catch mice."
"Danish","In taking revenge, a man is but even with his enemy; but in passing it over, he is superior."
"Danish","It is a great art to laugh at your own misfortune."
"Danish","In still water the worms are worst."
"Danish","In still water are the largest fish."
"Danish","Ill weeds grow the fastest and last the longest."
"Danish","If your head is made of butter, don't be a baker."
"Danish","If you would catch a fox you must hunt with geese."
"Danish","If you wish a thing done, go; if not, send."
"Danish","If you will stir up the mire, you must bear the smell."
"Danish","If you want some lies to be believed wrap them up in truths."
"Danish","He who would seek revenge must be on his own guard."
"Danish","In the ant's house, the dew is a flood."
"Danish","It is as cheap sitting as standing."
"Danish","It is better to buy dearly than to hunger direly."
"Danish","It is best to trust to two anchors."
"Danish","It is best to play with equals."
"Danish","It is best to be on the safe side."
"Danish","It is best to be off with the old love before you are on with the new."
"Danish","It is bad to lean against a falling wall."
"Danish","It is bad to be between two fires."
"Danish","It is bad iron in which there is no steel."
"Danish","It is bad for puppies to play with bear-cubs."
"Danish","It is a base thing to tear a dead lion's beard off."
"Danish","It is as much intemperance to weep too much, as to laugh too much."
"Danish","It is a bold mouse that makes her nest in the cat's ear."
"Danish","It is as bad to spit out the fire and be shamed, as it is to swallow it and be burnt."
"Danish","It is an ill wind that blows nobody good."
"Danish","It is an ill turn that does no good to any one."
"Danish","It is a wise child that knows its own father."
"Danish","It is a poor roast that gives no dripping."
"Danish","It is a poor mouse that has but one hole."
"Danish","It is a poor horse that is not worth his oats."
"Danish","It is a lazy bird that will not build its own nest."
"Danish","It is a great art to laught at your own misfortune."
"Danish","If you have no money, be polite."
"Danish","It is as well to be naked as to have no covering."
"Danish","Honour the old, teach the young."
"Danish","Hunger is the best sauce."
"Danish","Human blood is all of one colour."
"Danish","However high a bird may soar, it seeks its food on earth."
"Danish","Hope springs eternal."
"Danish","Hope is the dream of the waking."
"Danish","Hope is an egg, of which one man gets the yolk, another the white, and a third the shell."
"Danish","Hope for the best and prepare for the worst."
"Danish","Hope deferred makes the heart sick."
"Danish","Hope and strive is the way to thrive."
"Danish","If you play with the fool at home, he will play with you abroad."
"Danish","Honour the tree that gives you shelter."
"Danish","If a beard were all, the goat would be the winner."
"Danish","Honor buys no meat in the market."
"Danish","Honeyed speech often conceals poison and gall."
"Danish","Help yourself, and God will help you."
"Danish","Hold your dog in readiness before you start the hare."
"Danish","Help is good everywhere, except in the porridge-bowl."
"Danish","Heaven dries what it has made wet."
"Danish","Hear one man before you answer; hear several before you decide."
"Danish","He will never get into the wood who starts at every bush."
"Danish","He who hunts two hares from one bush, is not likely to catch either."
"Danish","Hope and expectation are a fool's income."
"Danish","If the beard were all, goats could preach."
"Danish","If you have learnt to wait, you may be Queen of Sweden."
"Danish","If you cannot heal the wound, do not tear it open."
"Danish","If you cannot get the bird, get one of its feathers."
"Danish","If you build according to every man's advice, you will have a crooked house."
"Danish","If thoughts were legal witnesses, many an honest man would be proved a rogue."
"Danish","If there is room in your heart there is room in your house."
"Danish","If there are no nightingales one must settle for owls."
"Danish","If the hen did not cackle no one would know what she had been about."
"Danish","If the cat had wings all sparrows would die."
"Danish","I would rather see smoke from my own chimney than the fire on another's hearth."
"Danish","If the beard were all, the goat might preach."
"Danish","Idleness is the devil's bolster."
"Danish","If the beard meant everything, the goat would preach."
"Danish","If lies were Latin, there would be many learned men."
"Danish","If lies are to find credence, they must be patched with truth."
"Danish","If it is to be luck, the bull may as well calve as the cow."
"Danish","If God give not bushelfuls, he gives spoonfuls."
"Danish","If God bids thee draw, he will find thee a rope; if he bids thee ride, he will find thee a horse."
"Danish","If envy were a fever, all the world would be ill."
"Danish","If a man has folly in his sleeve, it will be sure to peep out."
"Danish","If a bird knew how poor he was it wouldn't sing so beautifully."
"Danish","He who would serve everybody gets thanks from nobody."
"Danish","If the best man's faults were written on his forehead, it would make him pull his hat over his eyes."
"Danish","Flattery is sweet food for those who can swallow it."
"Danish","Good corn is not reaped from a bad field."
"Danish","From children and drunks will you hear the truth."
"Danish","Fresh air impoverishes the doctor."
"Danish","Frequent washing makes not the crow whiter."
"Danish","Fortune rarely brings good or evil singly."
"Danish","Fortune often knocks at the door, but the fool does not invite her in."
"Danish","For a good dinner and a gentle wife you can afford to wait."
"Danish","He that wants to hang a dog, says that it bites the sheep."
"Danish","Food tastes best when you eat it with your own spoon."
"Danish","From clogs to clogs is only three generations."
"Danish","Flowers are the pledges of fruit."
"Danish","From praise, as from a shadow, a man is neither bigger nor smaller."
"Danish","Fish and guests stink after three days."
"Danish","Fish and guests smell at three days old."
"Danish","Fire and water are good servants but bad masters."
"Danish","Fire and straw soon make a flame."
"Danish","Fingers were made before forks."
"Danish","Fine words without deeds go not far."
"Danish","Fine words butter no parsnips."
"Danish","Fine linen often conceals scabby skin."
"Danish","Fields have eyes and woods have ears."
"Danish","He who is afraid of asking is ashamed of learning."
"Danish","God cometh with leaden feet, but striketh with iron hands."
"Danish","Gold is proved in the fire, friendship in need."
"Danish","Gold is gold, though it be in a rogue's purse."
"Danish","God sends men cold according to their clothes."
"Danish","God permits the wicked; but not for ever."
"Danish","God never sends mouths but he sends meat."
"Danish","God help the sheep when the wolf is judge."
"Danish","God gives the will, necessity gives the law."
"Danish","God gives little folks small gifts."
"Danish","God gives every bird its food, but does not throw it into the nest."
"Danish","From children you must expect childish acts."
"Danish","God feeds the birds that use their wings."
"Danish","Few there are that will endure a true friend."
"Danish","God comes at last, when we think he is farthest off."
"Danish","Go often to the house of a friend; for weeds soon choke up the unused path."
"Danish","Give your wife the short knife, and keep the long one for yourself."
"Danish","Give to a pig when it grunts and a child when it cries, and you will have a fine pig and a bad child."
"Danish","Give a thing, and take a thing, to wear the devil's gold ring."
"Danish","Give a rogue an inch, and he will take an ell."
"Danish","Give a pig when it grunts, and a child when it cries, and you will have a fine pig, and a bad child."
"Danish","Gifts should be handed, not thrown."
"Danish","Gifts make friendship lasting."
"Danish","God gives all birds their food but does not drop it into their nests."
"Danish","Every man has his lot, and a wide world before him."
"Danish","Every one tries to cross the fence where it is lowest."
"Danish","Every one sees his smart coat, no one sees his shrunken belly."
"Danish","Every one rakes the fire under his own pot."
"Danish","Every one finds sin sweet and repentance bitter."
"Danish","Every man's friend is every man's fool."
"Danish","Every man thinks his own geese swans."
"Danish","Every man thinks his copper is gold."
"Danish","Every man must go to the mill with his own sack."
"Danish","Every man must carry his own sack to the mill."
"Danish","Few words are best."
"Danish","Every man is the architect of his own fortune."
"Danish","Everybody says it, nobody knows it."
"Danish","Every man has his liking."
"Danish","Every man carries an enemy in his own bosom."
"Danish","Every little helps, said the sow, when she snapped at a gnat."
"Danish","Every little fish expects to become a whale."
"Danish","Every light hath its shadow."
"Danish","Every life has its joy, every joy its law."
"Danish","Every fox looks after his own skin."
"Danish","Every fool thinks he is clever enough."
"Danish","Every fool can find faults that a great many wise men can't remedy."
"Danish","Every man likes his own praise best."
"Danish","Fair words won't fill the sack."
"Danish","Fools are like other folks as long as they are silent."
"Danish","Few have luck, all have death."
"Danish","Favour and gifts disturb justice."
"Danish","Faults are thick where love is thin."
"Danish","Father and mother are kind, but God is kinder."
"Danish","Fame and repute follow a man to the door."
"Danish","Falseness often lurks beneath fair hair."
"Danish","Falsehood, like a nettle, stings those who meddle with it."
"Danish","Falsehood travels and grows."
"Danish","Every tub must stand on its own bottom."
"Danish","Falsehood is the Devil's daughter, and speaks her father's tongue."
"Danish","Every wind is against a leaky ship."
"Danish","Fair words please the fool, and sometimes the wise."
"Danish","Faint praise is akin to abuse."
"Danish","Faint hearts never win fair ladies."
"Danish","Faint heart never won fair lady."
"Danish","Eye-service is the courtier's art."
"Danish","Evil wastes itself."
"Danish","Evil must be driven out by evil."
"Danish","Evil is soon done, but slowly mended."
"Danish","Everything has an end--except a sausage, which has two."
"Danish","Few women turn grey because their husband dies."
"Danish","Falsehood never tires of going round about."
"Danish","He sits well who can rise without help."
"Danish","He must cry aloud who would scare the devil."
"Danish","He that does you a very ill turn will never forgive you."
"Danish","He that does not save pennies, will never have pounds."
"Danish","He that desires but little has no need of much."
"Danish","He that deals in dirt has ay foul fingers."
"Danish","He that dares not venture must not complain of ill luck."
"Danish","He that dallies with his enemy gives him leave to kill him."
"Danish","He that cuts above himself, will get splinters in his eye."
"Danish","He that courts injury will obtain it."
"Danish","He that doth most at once doth least."
"Danish","He that bears the cross, blesses himself first."
"Danish","He that drinks beer, thinks beer."
"Danish","He scolds most that can hurt the least."
"Danish","He runs heavily who is forced to run."
"Danish","He needs a long spoon that would eat out of the same dish with the devil."
"Danish","He must stand high that would see the end of his own destiny."
"Danish","He must keep a sharp look-out who would speak the truth."
"Danish","He must have plenty of butter, who would stop everybody's mouth."
"Danish","He must have much meal who would stop all mouths."
"Danish","He must have iron fingers who would flay the devil."
"Danish","He must have clean fingers who would blow another's nose."
"Danish","He that boasteth of himself affronteth his company."
"Danish","He that keeps out of harm's way will gather goodly riches."
"Danish","He that wants to hang a dog, is sure to find a rope."
"Danish","He that touches pitch shall be defiled."
"Danish","He that touches pitch defiles himself."
"Danish","He that sings himself is the best pleased."
"Danish","He that says what he should not, will hear what he would not."
"Danish","He that performs his own errand, saves his messanger's hire."
"Danish","He that lives upon hope will die fasting."
"Danish","He that lives on hope has but a slender diet."
"Danish","He that lives in hope dances to an ill tune."
"Danish","He that doesn't know his bed is too hard sleeps well."
"Danish","He that laughs at his ain joke spoils the sport o't."
"Danish","He that holds is no better than he that scourges."
"Danish","He that is once at sea, must either sail or sink."
"Danish","He that is embarked with the devil must sail with him."
"Danish","Follow the customs, or fly the country."
"Danish","He that inquires much, learns much."
"Danish","Good counsel is no better than bad counsel, if it be not taken in time."
"Danish","He that hires one garden eats birds; he that hires more than one will be eaten by the birds."
"Danish","He that hides is no better than he that steals."
"Danish","He that has no money in his purse, should have fair words on his lips."
"Danish","He that feeds himself from waiting could die of hunger."
"Danish","He that lies down with the dogs, will get up with fleas."
"Danish","Half a nose is quickly blown."
"Danish","He has command of the sack who is seated on it."
"Danish","He had need rise betimes who would please everybody."
"Danish","He fears the sack who has been in it."
"Danish","He drives a good waggonful into his farm who gets a good wife."
"Danish","He does not live in this world that can skin a grindstone."
"Danish","He came time enough who was hung by candlelight."
"Danish","Happy is he who knows his follies in his youth."
"Danish","Happy he who can take warning from the mishaps of others."
"Danish","Happiness does not give, it only lends."
"Danish","He is a fool that praises himself, and he a madman that speaks ill of himself."
"Danish","Hang the young thief, and the old one will not steal."
"Danish","Hair does not grow faster by being pulled."
"Danish","Hair by hair and the head gets bald."
"Danish","Grey hairs are death's blossoms."
"Danish","Great men's requests are commands."
"Danish","Great lords will have much, and poor folk can give but little."
"Danish","Great lords have long hands, but they do not reach to heaven."
"Danish","Govern a horse with a bit, and a shrew with a stick."
"Danish","Good never comes too often."
"Danish","Good counsel will not rot, if it be got in dry."
"Danish","He must be pure who would blame another."
"Danish","He that is angry is seldom at ease."
"Danish","Happiness and glass break easily."
"Danish","He is young enough who has health, and he is rich enough who has no debts."
"Danish","He must be ill-favoured who scares the devil."
"Danish","He must be a clever host that would take the devil into his hostelry."
"Danish","Had it not been for an if, the old woman would have bitten a wolf."
"Danish","He is a man, who acts like a man."
"Danish","He loves me as the devil loves holy water."
"Danish","He loses least in a quarrel who keeps his tongue in cheek."
"Danish","He knows the water best who has waded through it."
"Danish","He knocks boldly at the door who brings a welcome message."
"Danish","He is not yet born who can please everybody."
"Danish","He is not a bad driver who knows how to turn."
"Danish","He is no small knave who knows a great one."
"Danish","He is my friend that succoureth me, not he that pitieth me."
"Danish","He is easy to lure, who is ready to follow."
"Danish","He knows best where the shoe pinches who wears it."
"Danish","He is never likely to have a good thing cheap that is afraid to ask a price."
"Danish","He is most likely to spill who holds the vessel in his hand."
"Danish","He is my friend that grindeth at my mill."
"Danish","He is little suited to be a baker, whose head is made of butter."
"Danish","He is a poor Smith who is afraid of sparks."
"Danish","He is most cheated who cheats himself."
"Danish","He is nearest a thing, who has it in his hands."
"Danish","He is nearest to God who has the fewest wants."
"Danish","One hair of a maiden's head pulls harder than ten yoke of oxen."
"Danish","One man is not bad because another is good."
"Danish","One man is born to money, and another to the purse."
"Danish","One ill weed mars a whole pot of pottage."
"Danish","One hunts the hare, and another eats it."
"Danish","One man often talks another off his bench, and seats himself upon it."
"Danish","One hand must wash the other, or both will be dirty."
"Danish","One mangy sheep spoils a whole flock."
"Danish","One fool may ask more questions than ten wise men can answer."
"Danish","One bite brings another."
"Danish","One bird in the hand is better than two on the roof."
"Danish","One beggar likes not that another has two wallets."
"Danish","One penny is better on land than ten on the sea."
"Danish","Old swine have hard snouts, old oxen hard horns."
"Danish","One word beforehand is better than ten afterwards."
"Danish","Old soldiers never die."
"Danish","Old sins cast long shadows."
"Danish","One bag of money is stronger than two bags of truth."
"Danish","No one so hard upon the poor as the pauper who has got into power."
"Danish","Pheasants are fools if they invite the hawk to dinner."
"Danish","Peter, I am taking a ride, said the goose, when the fox was running into the wood with her."
"Danish","Peace must be bought even at a high price."
"Danish","Peace feeds, war wastes; peace breeds, war consumes."
"Danish","Peace and a well-built house cannot be bought too dearly."
"Danish","Own kin are the worst friends, said the fox, when he saw the foxy dogs after him."
"Danish","Other times, other folk."
"Danish","One to one, and two to the devil."
"Danish","One would rather be bitten by wolves than by sheep."
"Danish","One piece of good advice is better than a bag full."
"Danish","One who is afraid of asking is ashamed of learning."
"Danish","Old signs do not deceive."
"Danish","One sword keeps another in its scabbard."
"Danish","One should speak little with others and much with oneself."
"Danish","One scabbed sheep will mar a whole flock."
"Danish","One raven does not peck out another's eyes."
"Danish","One ploughs, another sows, who will reap no one knows."
"Danish","Onions, smoke, and a shrew, make a good man's eyes water."
"Danish","Never repent a good action."
"Danish","No man is so tall that he need never stretch, and none so small that he need never stoop."
"Danish","No is a good answer when given in time."
"Danish","No answer is also an answer."
"Danish","No and yes cause long disputes."
"Danish","New things are most looked at."
"Danish","New songs are liked the best."
"Danish","Nothing is so new but it has happened before."
"Danish","New comers are always welcome."
"Danish","No man sees his shadow who faces the sun."
"Danish","Never let fools see half-finished work."
"Danish","National customs are national honours."
"Danish","Much water runs by while the miller sleeps."
"Danish","Much noise and little wool, said the devil, when he was shearing the sow."
"Danish","Much broth is sometimes made with little meat."
"Danish","More than enough is too much."
"Danish","More people know Tom Fool than Tom Fool knows."
"Danish","New dishes beget new appetites."
"Danish","No one knows what the dinner was after the plates have been washed."
"Danish","Old habits die hard."
"Danish","Old friends and old wine are best."
"Danish","Old friends and old ways ought not to be disdained."
"Danish","Old birds are not caught with chaff."
"Danish","Of bad debtors you make take spoilt herrings."
"Danish","Philosophy bakes no bread."
"Danish","Not every wood will make wooden shoes."
"Danish","No man limps because another is hurt."
"Danish","No one knows what will happen to him before sunset."
"Danish","No man looks for another in a sack, unless he has been there him himself."
"Danish","No one knows what a day may bring forth."
"Danish","No one knows the parson better than the clerk."
"Danish","No one is rich enough to do without his neighbour."
"Danish","No one falls low unless he attempt to climb high."
"Danish","No one can see into another further than his teeth."
"Danish","No one can be caught in places he does not visit."
"Danish","Old oxen have stiff horns."
"Danish","Praise is the hire of virtue."
"Danish","Speaking silence is better than senseless speech."
"Danish","Praise borrowed from ancestors is but very sorry praise."
"Danish","Strangers' meat is the greatest treat."
"Danish","Stop, look and listen."
"Danish","Stop and smell the roses."
"Danish","Stoop, and let it pass; the storm will have its way."
"Danish","Speedy execution is the mother of good fortune."
"Danish","Speech is silver, but silence is golden."
"Danish","Suffering and patience, obedience and application, help the lowly born to honour."
"Danish","Speech is oft repented, silence seldom."
"Danish","Take advice of a red-bearded man, and be gone."
"Danish","Speak little of your ill luck, and boast not of your good luck."
"Danish","Sparrows should not dance with cranes, their legs are too short."
"Danish","So many heads, so many minds."
"Danish","Smoke, rain, and a scolding wife, are three bad things in a house."
"Danish","Small profits are sweet."
"Danish","Small beer comes the last."
"Danish","Slander leaves a score behind it."
"Danish","Speech is often repented, silence never."
"Danish","That is true which all men say."
"Danish","Thaw reveals what has been hidden by snow."
"Danish","That's but an empty purse which is full of other men's money."
"Danish","That which one most forehets soonest comes to pass."
"Danish","That which must be, will be."
"Danish","That which is unsaid, may be spoken; that which is said, cannot be unsaid."
"Danish","That which is stamped a penny will never be a pound."
"Danish","That which has been thrown away has often to be begged for again."
"Danish","Straws tell which way the wind blows."
"Danish","That may be soon done, which brings long repentance."
"Danish","Silent tongue and hempen heart often go together."
"Danish","That is poor help that helps you from the feather-bed to the straw."
"Danish","That bench is well adorned that is filled with virtuous women."
"Danish","Ten noes are better then one lie."
"Danish","Tell nothing to thy friend which why enemy may not know."
"Danish","Take not your sickle to another man's corn."
"Danish","Take help of many, advice of few."
"Danish","Take care of your geese when the fox preaches."
"Danish","That which comes with sin, goes with sorrow."
"Danish","Praise paves the way to friendship."
"Danish","Rather the egg to-day than the hen to-morrow."
"Danish","Rain comes oft after sunshine, and after a dark cloud a clear sky."
"Danish","Quick and well seldom go together."
"Danish","Put your hand quickly to your hat, and slowly in your purse, and you will take no harm."
"Danish","Promises and undressed cloth are apt to shrink."
"Danish","Profit is better than fame."
"Danish","Pretty children sing pretty songs."
"Danish","Slander expires at a good woman's door."
"Danish","Praise the child, and you make love to the mother."
"Danish","Relatives are the worst friends, said the fox as the dogs took after him."
"Danish","Many little rivulets make a great river."
"Danish","Praise is not pudding."
"Danish","More people are slain by supper than by the sword."
"Danish","Praise a fool, and you may make him useful."
"Danish","Praise a fair day in the evening."
"Danish","Power often goes before talent."
"Danish","Poor relations have little honour."
"Danish","Precipitate counsel--perilous deed."
"Danish","Shame comes to no man unless he himself help it on the way."
"Danish","Physicians rarely take medicine."
"Danish","Sight goes before hearsay."
"Danish","Sickness is every man's master."
"Danish","Sickness comes uninvited--no need to bespeak it."
"Danish","Sickness comes in haste, and goes at leisure."
"Danish","Should the heavens fall, many pipkins will be broken."
"Danish","Short pleasure often brings long repentance."
"Danish","Rats and conquerors must expect no mercy in misfortune."
"Danish","Shared sorrow is half sorrow."
"Danish","Reconciled friendship is like a badly healed wound."
"Danish","Set a fox to catch a fox."
"Danish","Secret gifts are openly rewarded."
"Danish","Sail while the breeze blows, wind and tide wait for no man."
"Danish","Rust consumes iron, and envy consumes itself."
"Danish","Riches breed care, poverty is safe."
"Danish","Riches are often abused, but never refused."
"Danish","Riches and favour go before wisdom and art."
"Danish","Silver and gold are all men's dears."
"Danish","Short flax makes long thread."
"Danish","It is not every one who takes the right sow by the ear."
"Danish","It is poor comfort for one who has broken his leg, that another has broken his neck."
"Danish","It is only the blind who ask why they are loved who are fair."
"Danish","It is of no use making shoes for geese."
"Danish","It is not the surplice that makes parson or clerk."
"Danish","It is not for the swan to teach eaglets to sing."
"Danish","It is not for the good of the cow when she is driven in a carriage."
"Danish","Meddle with dirt and some of it will stick to you."
"Danish","It is not for my own sake, said the fox, ""that I say there is a good goose-green in the wood."""
"Danish","It is the raised stick that makes the dog obey."
"Danish","It is not every man that can carry a falcon on his hand."
"Danish","It is not every hog that the crow will ride."
"Danish","It is not easy to walk upon the devil's ice."
"Danish","It is not easy to straighten in the oak the crook that grew in the sapling."
"Danish","It is not easy to sting a bear with a straw."
"Danish","It is not easy to pluck hairs from a bald pate."
"Danish","It is not easy to know your butter in another man's cabbage."
"Danish","It is not for nothing that the devil lays himself down in the ditch."
"Danish","It is well to have clean bread in one's wallet."
"Danish","Jest with your equals."
"Danish","Italian devotion and German fasting have no meaning."
"Danish","It will come back, said the man, when he gave his sow pork."
"Danish","It takes many words to fill a sack."
"Danish","It takes a good many mice to kill a cat."
"Danish","It needs but slight provocation to make the wolf devour the lamb."
"Danish","It needs a light spirit to bear a heavy fate."
"Danish","It is possible for a ram to kill a butcher."
"Danish","It must be a hard winter when one wolf devours another."
"Danish","It is safe to lend barley to him who has oats."
"Danish","It is vain to fish without a hook, or learn to read without a book."
"Danish","It is useless to gape against an oven."
"Danish","It is too late to throw water on the cinders when the house is burnt down."
"Danish","It is too late to cry cat, when the bacon is eaten."
"Danish","It is too late to cover the well when the child is drowned."
"Danish","It is time enough to take off your hat when you see the man."
"Danish","It is not all gold that glitters."
"Danish","It needs a high wall to keep out fear."
"Danish","It is easier to stem the brook than the river."
"Danish","It is not easy to guard the hen that lays her eggs abroad."
"Danish","It is easy to sit at the helm in fine weather."
"Danish","It is easy to poke another man's fire."
"Danish","It is easy to manage when fortune favors."
"Danish","It is easy to find the rod when another finds the bottom."
"Danish","It is easy to bid the devil be your guest, but difficult to get rid of him."
"Danish","It is easy to be generous with another man's money."
"Danish","It is easy to swim, when another holds up your head."
"Danish","It is easier to suppress the first desire than to satisfy all that follow it."
"Danish","It is easy to work with a good comb, said the devil, when he combed his mother's hair with a pitchfork."""
"Danish","It is easier to fill a rogue's belly than his eye."
"Danish","It is discreditable to fly from a living enemy, or to abuse a dead one."
"Danish","It is difficult to tie an unborn horse to the manger."
"Danish","It is difficult to spit honey out of a mouth full of gall."
"Danish","It is difficult to hide what everybody knows."
"Danish","The absent are always to blame."
"Danish","Trust everybody, but thyself most."
"Danish","It is easy to be generous out of another man's purse."
"Danish","It is hard to glean after a niggardly husbandman."
"Danish","Justice oft leans to the side where the purse pulls."
"Danish","It is no use hiding from a friend what is known to an enemy."
"Danish","It is hard to track the path the ship follows in the ocean."
"Danish","It is hard to teach an old dog new tricks."
"Danish","It is hard to sail without wind, and to grind without water."
"Danish","It is hard to pay for bread that has been eaten."
"Danish","It is hard to make a fire on a cold hearth."
"Danish","It is easy to stride a tree when it is down."
"Danish","It is hard to labour with an empty belly."
"Danish","It is not all who turn their backs that flee."
"Danish","It is good to make a bridge of gold to a flying enemy."
"Danish","It is good to lend to God and to the soil--they pay good interest."
"Danish","It is good to be priest at Easter, child in Lent, peasant at Christmas, and foal in harvest-time."
"Danish","It is folly to take a thorn out of another's foot and put it into your own."
"Danish","It is folly to sing twice to a deaf man."
"Danish","It is folly to fear what one cannot avoid."
"Danish","It is folly to drown on dry land."
"Danish","It is hard to live in Rome and strive against the Pope."
"Danish","Love's quarrels oft in pleasing concord end."
"Danish","Little children, little sorrows; big children, great sorrows."
"Danish","Make use of the sun while it shines."
"Danish","Mad dogs get their coats torn."
"Danish","Lucky at cards, unlucky in love."
"Danish","Luck will carry a man across the brook if he is not too lazy to leap."
"Danish","Luck stops at the door and inquires whether prudence is within."
"Danish","Luck sometimes visits a fool, but never sits down with him."
"Danish","Many a fool might pass for a wise man if he would only keep his mouth shut."
"Danish","Luck has much for many, but enough for no one."
"Danish","Many a man is a good friend but a bad neighbour."
"Danish","Love's plant must be watered with tears, and tended with care."
"Danish","Love begets love."
"Danish","Love and poverty are hard to conceal."
"Danish","Lords and fools speak freely."
"Danish","Little sticks kindle a fire, great ones put it out."
"Danish","Little sorrows are loud, great ones silent."
"Danish","Joy is like the ague; one good day between two bad ones."
"Danish","Luck is better than a hundred marks."
"Danish","Many grains of sand will sink a ship."
"Danish","Money is more eloquent that a dozen members of parliament."
"Danish","Misfortune seldom comes alone to the house."
"Danish","Mischief comes soon enough."
"Danish","Might have gone further and have fared worse."
"Danish","Might and courage require wit in their suite."
"Danish","Many love to praise right and do wrong."
"Danish","Many kiss the child for the nurse's sake."
"Danish","Many a cow stands in the meadow and looks wistfully at the common."
"Danish","It is dear-bought butter that is licked off a woolcomb."
"Danish","Like seeks like--a scabbed horse and a sandy dike."
"Danish","It is difficult to get many heads under one hat."
"Danish","Many dogs are the death of the hare."
"Danish","Many a thing whispered into one ear is heard over the whole town."
"Danish","Many a sheep goes out woolly and comes home shorn."
"Danish","Many a one would like to lay his own shame on another man's back."
"Danish","Many a mickle makes a muckle."
"Danish","Many a man labours for the day he will never live to see."
"Danish","Many have too much, but none have enough."
"Danish","Kind words don't wear out the tongue."
"Danish","Little saints also perform miracles."
"Danish","Laugh and the world laughs with you, weep and you weep alone."
"Danish","Late repentance is seldom worth much."
"Danish","Lang tarrying taks a' the thanks awa'. [Long tarrying takes all the thanks away.]"
"Danish","Lambs don't runs with the mouth of the sleeping wolf."
"Danish","Ladies have ladies' whims. said crazy Ann, when she draggled her cloak in the gutter."
"Danish","Labour has a bitter root, but a sweet taste."
"Danish","Lawyers and painters can soon change white to black."
"Danish","Kind words heal friendship's wounds."
"Danish","Lend to your friend, and ask payment of your enemy."
"Danish","Kind words and few are a woman's ornament."
"Danish","Kill no more than you can salt, or you will have tainted meat."
"Danish","Keep your nose to the grindstone."
"Danish","Keep your nose out of another's mess."
"Danish","Keep your mouth, and keep your friend."
"Danish","Keep not two tongues in one mouth."
"Danish","More flies are caught with a drop of honey than with a barrel of vinegar."
"Danish","Kisses are the messengers of love."
"Danish","Let him stay at the oar who has learnt to row."
"Danish","Like plays best with like."
"Danish","Life begins at forty."
"Danish","Life at court is often a short cut to hell."
"Danish","Lies and Latin go round the world."
"Danish","Lies and gossip have a wretched offspring."
"Danish","Liberal hands make many friends."
"Danish","Let the blood be ever so thin, it is always thicker than water."
"Danish","Law helps the waking, luck may come to the sleeping."
"Danish","Let him who would reach another a brand, beware that he do not burn his own hand."
"Danish","Joy surfeited turns to sorrow."
"Danish","Let deeds match words."
"Danish","Let another's shipwreck be your sea-mark."
"Danish","Let another man praise thee, not thine own mouth."
"Danish","Let a saint be ever so humble, he will have his wax taper."
"Danish","Let a horse drink when he will, not what he will."
"Danish","Let a dog get at a dish of honey, and he will jump in with both legs."
"Danish","Let a child have its will, and it will not cry."
"Danish","Let ilka herring hing by its ain head."
"Danish","What! give the lettuce in charge to the geese!"
"Danish","When fools go to market the huckster gets money."
"Danish","When every one minds his own business the work is done."
"Danish","When every man gets his own the devil gets nothing."
"Danish","When dirt comes to honour it know not what to be."
"Danish","When cat and mouse agree, the farmer has no chance."
"Danish","When anger blinds the eyes, truth disappears."
"Danish","To cut into another's man's ear is like cutting into a felt hat."
"Danish","When a man is in a sack, he must get out at the mouth or at the bottom."
"Danish","When it pours upon the parson, it drops upon the clerk."
"Danish","What youth learns, age does not forget."
"Danish","What you learn to your cost you remember long."
"Danish","What you do yourself is well done."
"Danish","What is sweet in the mouth is not always good in the stomach."
"Danish","What is play to the strong is death to the weak."
"Danish","What is play to the cat is death to the mouse."
"Danish","What is gotten over the devil's back is spent under his belly."
"Danish","When a man is not liked, whatever he doth is amiss."
"Danish","When the beer goes in the wits go out."
"Danish","When the goose trusts the fox then woe to her neck."
"Danish","When the going gets tough, the tough get going."
"Danish","When the game is most thriving it is time to leave off."
"Danish","When the fox preaches to the goose her neck is in danger."
"Danish","When the fox licks his paw let the farmer look after his geese."
"Danish","When the crane attempts to dance with the house she gets broken bones."
"Danish","When the cord is tightest it is nearest snapping."
"Danish","When friends ask, there is no tomorrow."
"Danish","When the belly is full the mind is amongst the maids."
"Danish","When I have money in my purse, I have food in my mouth."
"Danish","When one foot stumbles, the other is near falling."
"Danish","When neighbours quarrel, lookers-on are more apt to add fuel than water."
"Danish","When mistrust enters, love departs."
"Danish","When lazy horses begin to start, old women to dance, and white clouds to rain, there is no stopping them."
"Danish","When joy is in the parlour, sorrow is in the passage."
"Danish","When it rains porridge the beggar has no spoon."
"Danish","Weighty work must be done with few words."
"Danish","When the cook is roasting for the butler, woe to the master's wine-cask."
"Danish","To-day in gold, to-morrow in the mould."
"Danish","What is got by begging is dearly bought."
"Danish","Truth is God's daughter."
"Danish","Truth is bitter food."
"Danish","Truth and folly dwell in the wine-cask."
"Danish","Trust not still water nor a silent man."
"Danish","Trust not a skittish horse, nor a great lord, when they shake their heads."
"Danish","Treachery lurks in honeyed words."
"Danish","Truth's cloak is often lined with lies."
"Danish","Too little, too late."
"Danish","Two are the masters of one."
"Danish","To withhold truth is to bury gold."
"Danish","To wait and be patient soothes many a pang."
"Danish","To promise is easy, to keep is troublesome."
"Danish","To live long is to suffer long."
"Danish","To know the law and do the right are two things."
"Danish","To God's council-chamber there is no key."
"Danish","Treachery and slander are long lived."
"Danish","Too many captains will sink the ship."
"Danish","Virtue in the middle, said the Devil, when seated between two lawyers."
"Danish","When the helm is gone the ship will soon be wrecked."
"Danish","Weeds never die out."
"Danish","We must suffer much, or die young."
"Danish","We must sow even after a bad harvest."
"Danish","We must eat a peck of dirt before we die."
"Danish","We must bear our cross with patience, said the man when he took his wife on his back."
"Danish","Wanton kittens make sober cats."
"Danish","Truth must be seasoned to make it palatable."
"Danish","Want and necessity break faith and oaths."
"Danish","Welcome is the best cheer."
"Danish","Vipers breed vipers."
"Danish","Vice is most dangerous when it puts on the garb of virtue."
"Danish","Vice is learnt without a schoolmaster."
"Danish","Unworthy offspring brag the most of their worthy descent."
"Danish","Unwilling service earns no thanks."
"Danish","Under white ashes lie often glowing embers."
"Danish","Two may lie so as to hang a third."
"Danish","Want of variety leads to satiety."
"Danish","You cannot take a shirt from a naked man."
"Danish","You cannot make a good archbishop out of a rogue."
"Danish","You may get something off a bone, but nothing off a stone."
"Danish","You may gain by fair words what may fail you by angry ones."
"Danish","You may force an ox to the water, but you cannot make him drink."
"Danish","You may force a horse to the water, but you cannot make him drink."
"Danish","You may cook in small pots aw well as in large ones."
"Danish","You may call that your own which no one can take from you."
"Danish","You may often feel that heavily on your back which you took lightly on your conscience."
"Danish","You may always find an opportunity in your sleeve, if you like."
"Danish","You may preach ever so long to the wolf, he will nevertheless call for the lamb before night."
"Danish","You cannot take a cow from a man who has none."
"Danish","You cannot shift an old tree without it dying."
"Danish","You cannot shear the sheep closer than the skin."
"Danish","You cannot serve God and mammon."
"Danish","You cannot sail as you would, but as the wind blows."
"Danish","You cannot pull hard with a broken rope."
"Danish","When the gorse is out of bloom, kissing's out of fashion."
"Danish","You may as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb."
"Danish","You must judge a maiden at the kneading trough, and not in a dance."
"Danish","Good corn is not reaped from a bad field."
"Danish","It is dangerous to eat cherries with the great, they throw the stones at your head."
"Danish","Young pigs grunt as old swine grunted before them."
"Danish","Young pigs grunt as old pigs grunted before them."
"Danish","Young people must be taught, old ones be honoured."
"Danish","Young dogs have sharp teeth."
"Danish","You must walk a long while behind a wild goose before you find an ostrich feather."
"Danish","You may light another's candle at your own without loss."
"Danish","You must knock a long while against an alder-bush before you get a swarm of bees out of it."
"Danish","You cannot have your cake and eat it."
"Danish","You must howl with the wolves when you are among them."
"Danish","You must have good luck to catch hares with a drum."
"Danish","You must contrive to bake with the flour you have."
"Danish","You must be strong to pull a rope against a stronger."
"Danish","You may take a horse to the water, but you can't make him drink."
"Danish","You may speak with your gold and make other tongues silent."
"Danish","You may shut your doors against a thief, but not against a liar."
"Danish","You must lose a fly, to catch a trout."
"Danish","When the word is in the mouth you must caress the sheath."
"Danish","You cannot make a good hunting-horn of a pig's tail."
"Danish","Where law lacks, honour should eke it out."
"Danish","Where a man never goes, there his head will never be washed."
"Danish","When you go to dance, take heed whom you take by the hand."
"Danish","When wisdom fails, luck helps."
"Danish","When two enemies blow one horn, the third will have to suffer for it."
"Danish","When thieves fall out the peasant recovers his goods."
"Danish","Where the carrion is, there the eagles gather."
"Danish","When the wound is healed the pain is forgotten."
"Danish","Where there is discipline there is virtue; where there is peace there is plenty."
"Danish","When the wolf's ears appear, his body is not far off."
"Danish","When the waggon is tilting everybody gives it a shove."
"Danish","When the tree falls every one runs to gather sticks."
"Danish","When the rooks are silent the swans begin to sing."
"Danish","When the manger is empty the horses fight."
"Danish","When the host smiles most blandly he has an eye to the guest's purse."
"Danish","To circumstances and custom the law must yield."
"Danish","When there is room in the heart, there is room in the house."
"Danish","Wisdom rides upon the ruins of folly."
"Danish","You cannot have peace longer than your neighbour chooses."
"Danish","You cannot drink and whistle at the same time."
"Danish","You can judge a man by the company he keeps."
"Danish","You can have too much of a good thing."
"Danish","You can have no more of the fox than his skin."
"Danish","Words once spoken cannot be wiped out with a sponge."
"Danish","Wolves are often hidden under sheep's clothing."
"Danish","Where money and counsel are wanting, it is best not to make war."
"Danish","Woe be to an evil eye."
"Danish","When the head aches all the limbs ache."
"Danish","Wisdom is the least burdensome travelling pack."
"Danish","While the great bells are ringing no one hears the little ones."
"Danish","While the grass is growing the mare dies."
"Danish","While the dogs yelp, the hare flies to the wood."
"Danish","Where you cannot climb over, you must creep under."
"Danish","Where will is right, law is banished."
"Danish","Where there is no wit within no wit will come out."
"Danish","Woe be to him whose advocate becomes his accuser."
"Danish","The herb patience does not grow in every man's garden."
"Danish","The man who is born in a stable is not a horse."
"Danish","The man who is afraid of asking is ashamed of learning."
"Danish","The Lord will not fail to come, though he may not come on horseback."
"Danish","The laggard cow gets the sour grass."
"Danish","The issue of all contention is uncertain. [Witness the glorious uncertainty of the law, and of the turf.]"
"Danish","The is worthy of sweets, who has tasted bitters."
"Danish","To give counsel to a fool is like throwing water on a goose."
"Danish","The heron blames the water because he cannot swim."
"Danish","The millstone that lies undermost also helps to grind."
"Danish","The hen lives by pickings, as the lion by prey."
"Danish","The hen is ill off when the egg teaches her how to cackle."
"Danish","The hen flies not far unless the cock flies with her."
"Danish","The greater the fear the nearer the danger."
"Danish","The goose that has lost its head no longer cackles."
"Danish","The goose that has a good gander cackles loudly."
"Danish","The generous man grows rich in giving, the miser poor in taking."
"Danish","The horse must go to the manger, and not the manger to the horse."
"Danish","The mouse is knowing, but the cat more knowing."
"Danish","The pike grows big on small fry."
"Danish","The owl thinks her children the fairest."
"Danish","The owl does not praise the light, nor the wolf the dog."
"Danish","The old branch breaks when it is bent."
"Danish","The oft-moved stone gathers no moss."
"Danish","The nobler the blood the less the pride."
"Danish","The new is always liked, though the old is often better."
"Danish","The master derives from his art."
"Danish","The mouse may find a hole, be the room ever so full of cats."
"Danish","The miller is never so drunk that he forgets to take his dues."
"Danish","The more you stir filth the worse it stinks."
"Danish","The more shepherds the less care."
"Danish","The more knave, the better luck."
"Danish","The more cooks, the worse broth."
"Danish","The more by law, the less by right."
"Danish","The miser's bag is never full."
"Danish","The foot of the owner is the best manure for his land."
"Danish","The mouth often utters that which the head must answer for."
"Danish","The branch must be bent early that is to make a good crook."
"Danish","The fox does not go twice into the same trap."
"Danish","The customer is always right."
"Danish","The crow will find its mate."
"Danish","The cow knows not what her tail is worth until she has lost it."
"Danish","The cow is milked, not the ox; the sheep is shorn, not the horse."
"Danish","The corn that is taken to a bad mill. will be badly ground."
"Danish","The cock often crows without a victory."
"Danish","The day is sure to come when the cow will want her tail."
"Danish","The child who gets a stepmother also gets a stepfather."
"Danish","The dearer the child, the sharper must be the rod."
"Danish","The branch is seldom better than the stem."
"Danish","The bow may be bent until it breaks."
"Danish","The bird once out of hand is hard to recover."
"Danish","The best manure is under the farmer's shoe."
"Danish","The best advice is found on the pillow."
"Danish","The belly gives no credit."
"Danish","The anvil does not fear a good sledge-hammer."
"Danish","The church is an anvil which has worn out many hammers."
"Danish","The eye of the master will do more than both his hands."
"Danish","The poor man wants much, the miser everything."
"Danish","The foot of the farmer manures the field."
"Danish","The flitch hangs never so high but a dog will look out for the bone."
"Danish","The flame is not far from the smoke."
"Danish","The first bird get the first grain."
"Danish","The fire is welcome within, when icicles hang without."
"Danish","The fire heeds little whose cloak it burns."
"Danish","The day is never so holy that the pot refuses to boil."
"Danish","The fat sow knows not what the hungry sow suffers."
"Danish","The forest has ears, and field has eyes."
"Danish","The eye of the master makes the horse fat."
"Danish","The earthen pan gains nothing by contact with the copper pot."
"Danish","The earth is always frozen to lazy swine."
"Danish","The drunken man's joy is often the sober man's sorrow."
"Danish","The dog's kennel is not the place to keep a sausage."
"Danish","The dog will not get free by biting his chain."
"Danish","The dog that is forced into the woods will not hunt many deer."
"Danish","The fire burns brightest on one's own hearth."
"Danish","There is no cure against a slanderer's bite."
"Danish","The year has a wide mouth and a big belly."
"Danish","There's many a knave concealed under a surplice."
"Danish","There were never fewer nobles than when all would be so."
"Danish","There is no virtue in a promise unless it be kept."
"Danish","There is no use in blowing a fire that burns well."
"Danish","There is no need to fasten a bell to a fool, he is sure to tell his own tale."
"Danish","There is no need to blow what does not burn you."
"Danish","There's many a slip, 'Twixt the cup and the lip."
"Danish","There is no fire without smoke."
"Danish","They brag most of their ancestors who are unworthy of them."
"Danish","There is honour among thieves."
"Danish","There is honor among thieves."
"Danish","There is help for everything, except death."
"Danish","There are three things from which no good can be got without a beating: a walnut-tree, a donkey, and a shrew."
"Danish","There are three bad neighbours: great rivers, great lords, and great roads."
"Danish","There are many days in the year, and still more meals."
"Danish","The poor man seeks for food, the rich man for appetite."
"Danish","There is no fishing for trout in dry breeches."
"Danish","Throw not the child out with the bath."
"Danish","To be a fool at the right time is also an art."
"Danish","To bait and to grease does not retard a journey."
"Danish","To a friend's house the road is never long."
"Danish","Time works wonders."
"Danish","Time will tell."
"Danish","Time waits for no man."
"Danish","Time is not tied to a post, like a horse to the manger."
"Danish","There's many a slip 'twixt cut and lip."
"Danish","Throw not thy hatchet at the Lord, He will turn the sharp edge against thee."
"Danish","The wolf preys not in his own field."
"Danish","Throw no stones at a sleeping dog."
"Danish","Though your enemy is the size of an ant, regard him as an elephant."
"Danish","Though you teach a wolf the paternoster, he will say ""Lamb! Lamb!"""
"Danish","Though the bird's in the net It may get away yet."
"Danish","Though the ass may carry a sack of gold, it nevertheless feeds on thistles."
"Danish","Those who climb high, often have a fall."
"Danish","They who do not wash well, do not bleach well."
"Danish","Thundershowers and great men's favour are always partial."
"Danish","The raven chides blackness."
"Danish","The young pig must often suffer for what the old sow did."
"Danish","The shirt is nearer to the body than the coat."
"Danish","The sheep that bleat the most give the least milk."
"Danish","The scraping hen will get something; the crouching hen nothing."
"Danish","The scoffer's own house is often on fire."
"Danish","The road to heaven is equally short, where'er we die."
"Danish","The road to a friend's house is never long."
"Danish","The shoemakers children go barefoot."
"Danish","The raven is fair when the rook is not by."
"Danish","The silent man is most trusted."
"Danish","The raven always thinks that her young ones are the whitest."
"Danish","The priest to his book, the peasant to his plough."
"Danish","The pride of the poor does not endure."
"Danish","The pot calls the kettle black."
"Danish","The pot boils best on your own hearth."
"Danish","The poor man's corm always grows thin."
"Danish","The aged in council--the young in action."
"Danish","The rich widow's tears soon dry."
"Danish","The sword keeps the peace of the land."
"Danish","The water runs while the miller sleeps."
"Danish","The watch-dog does not get sweet milk unless there be drowned mice in it."
"Danish","The waggon must go whither the horses draw it."
"Danish","The used plough shines, standing water stinks."
"Danish","The used key is always bright."
"Danish","The upright never grow rich in a hurry."
"Danish","The tree is sure to be pruned before it reaches the skies."
"Danish","The shoemaker's son always goes barefoot."
"Danish","The teeth of the puppy are growing, while the old dog is gnawing bones."
"Danish","The poor man seeks only a crumb, then finds he still hungers."
"Danish","The stone that everybody spits upon will be wet at the last."
"Danish","The sting of a reproach is the truth of it."
"Danish","The still swine eat the mash. the wind ones run past it."
"Danish","The steps at court are slippery."
"Danish","The sow prefers the mire."
"Danish","The sleeping fox catches no poultry."
"Danish","The sky is not the less blue because the blind man does not see it."
"Danish","The tooth often bites the tongue, and yet they keep together."
"Danish","Better a salt herring on your own table, than a fresh pike on another man's."
"Danish","Better in an old carriage than in a new ship."
"Danish","Better half a loaf than none at all."
"Danish","Better cross an angry man than a fasting man."
"Danish","Better come late to church than never."
"Danish","Better blow hard than burn yourself."
"Danish","Better be convinced by words than by blows."
"Danish","Better walk unshackled in a green meadow, than be bound to a thorn-brush."
"Danish","Better an open enemy than a false friend."
"Danish","Better lose the anchor than the whole ship."
"Danish","Better a poor horse than an empty stall."
"Danish","Better a little in peace and with right, than much with anxiety and strife."
"Danish","Better a little furniture than an empty house."
"Danish","Better a friend's bite than an enemy's caress."
"Danish","Before a man learns to hang he is half dead."
"Danish","Beauty without virtue is like a rose without scent."
"Danish","Beauty is a fading flower."
"Danish","Better ask twice than lose your way once."
"Danish","Better the child cry than the old man."
"Danish","Every little helps, said the sow, when she snapped at a gnat."
"Danish","Better twice measured than once wrong."
"Danish","Better to light a candle than to curse the darkness."
"Danish","Better to have something yourself, than to beg of your sister."
"Danish","Better to deny at once, than to promise long."
"Danish","Better to be a free bird than a captive king."
"Danish","Better to ask twice than to lose your way once."
"Danish","Better is the branch that bends, than the branch that breaks."
"Danish","Better the child cry, than the mother sigh."
"Danish","Better is the evil known than the good which is yet to know."
"Danish","Better suffer for truth, than prosper by falsehood."
"Danish","Better spare at the brim that at the bottom."
"Danish","Better something on the arm than all in the stomach."
"Danish","Better one cow in peace than seven in trouble."
"Danish","Better no law, than law not enforced."
"Danish","Better make a short circuit than to wet your hose."
"Danish","Bad is never good until worse happens."
"Danish","Better the world should know you as a sinner than God know you as a hypocrite."
"Danish","Always to be sparing is always to be in want."
"Danish","Beauty draws with a single hair."
"Danish","An old error has more friends than a new truth."
"Danish","An ill-tempered woman is the devil's door-nail."
"Danish","An ill-tempered dog has a scarred nose."
"Danish","An honest man is not the worse because a dog barks at him."
"Danish","An honest man does not make himself a dog for the sake of a bone."
"Danish","An evil eye can see no good."
"Danish","An old man's sayings are seldom untrue."
"Danish","An empty cellar makes an angry butler."
"Danish","An old wolf is not scared by loud cries."
"Danish","Along in counsel, alone in sorrow."
"Danish","Alms do not empty the purse, and a mass does not exhaust the day's duty."
"Danish","Almost kills no man."
"Danish","All women may be won."
"Danish","All women are good Lutherans, they would rather preach than hear mass."
"Danish","All who snore are not asleep."
"Danish","All keys hang not on one girdle."
"Danish","An evil deed has a witness in the bosom."
"Danish","As a man dresses so is he esteemed."
"Danish","Better whole than patched in gold."
"Danish","At court they sell a good deal of smoke without fire."
"Danish","Ask advice of your equals, help of your superiors."
"Danish","As water runs towards the sword money towards the rich man's hand."
"Danish","As the virtue in the tree, such is the fruit."
"Danish","As the saying goes."
"Danish","As the old ones sing, the young ones twitter."
"Danish","An old fool is worse than a young simpleton."
"Danish","As the man is, so is his speech."
"Danish","Beauty carries its dower in its face."
"Danish","Art is art, even though unsuccessful."
"Danish","Art and knowledge bring bread and honour."
"Danish","Another year will bring another Christmas."
"Danish","Another man's horse and your own whip can do a great deal."
"Danish","Another man's burden is always light."
"Danish","And Nathan said unto David: ""Thou art the man."""
"Danish","An unpleasant guest is as welcome as salt to a sore eye."
"Danish","As the master is, so are his men."
"Danish","Do not wade where you see no bottom."
"Danish","Empty barrels give the most sound."
"Danish","Eggs and oaths are easily broken."
"Danish","Earnestness and sport go well together."
"Danish","Dull scissors make crooked-mouthed tailors."
"Danish","Dry wood makes a quick fire."
"Danish","Drive the nail that will go."
"Danish","Better walk on wooden legs, than be carried on a wooden bier."
"Danish","Don't sell the skin till you have caught the fox."
"Danish","Envy does not enter an empty house."
"Danish","Do not put in more warp than you can weave."
"Danish","Do not judge your friend until you stand in his place."
"Danish","Do not judge the dog by his hairs."
"Danish","Do good to a knave, and pray God he may not do the same to thee."
"Danish","Do as you would be done by."
"Danish","Do as others do, and few will mock you."
"Danish","Distrust is poison to friendship."
"Danish","Drive not too many ploughs at once, some will make foul work."
"Danish","It is bitter fare to eat one's own words."
"Danish","Every little fish expects to become a whale."
"Danish","Every light hath its shadow."
"Danish","Every life has its joy, every joy its law."
"Danish","Every fool thinks he is clever enough."
"Danish","Every fool can find faults that a great many wise men can't remedy."
"Danish","Every foal is not like its sire."
"Danish","Every day hath its night, every weal its woe."
"Danish","Empty waggons make most noise."
"Danish","Even that fish may be caught that strives the hardest against it."
"Danish","Enough is great riches."
"Danish","Even doubtful accusations leave a stain behind them."
"Danish","Even crumbs are bread."
"Danish","Even clever hens sometimes lay their eggs among nettles."
"Danish","Even a small star shines in the darkness."
"Danish","Envy was never a good spokesman."
"Danish","Envy is its own torturer."
"Danish","Deep rivers move with silent majesty, shallow brooks are noisy."
"Danish","Every day has its evening."
"Danish","Blame is the lazy man's wages."
"Danish","Diligent work makes a skilful workman."
"Danish","Call not the devil, he will come fast enough unbidden."
"Danish","By gnawing skin a dog learns to eat leather."
"Danish","Buy in the cheapest market and sell in the dearest."
"Danish","Buy him at his own price and sell him at yours and you'll make no bargain."
"Danish","Butter spoils no meat, and moderation injures no cause."
"Danish","Break one link and the whole chain falls apart."
"Danish","Chastise a good child, that it may not grow bad, and a bad one, that it may not grow worse."
"Danish","Blame it on the rain."
"Danish","Cheerfulness and goodwill make labour light."
"Danish","Blacksmith's children are not afraid of sparks."
"Danish","Bite not the dog that bites."
"Danish","Big words seldom go with good deeds."
"Danish","Beware, froth is not beer."
"Danish","Beware of the dog himself, his shadow does not bite."
"Danish","Between saying and doing there is a great distance."
"Danish","Between evil tongues and evil ears, there is nothing to choose."
"Danish","Bread is better than the song of birds."
"Danish","Counsel after action is like rain after harvest."
"Danish","All but saves many a man."
"Danish","Deep draughts, and long morning slumbers, soon make a man poor."
"Danish","Deceit is in haste, but honesty can wait a fair leisure."
"Danish","Deceit and treachery make no man rich."
"Danish","Death does not blow a trumpet."
"Danish","Daylight will come, though the cock do not crow."
"Danish","Damage suffered makes you knowing, but seldom rich."
"Danish","Care, and not fine stables, make a good horse."
"Danish","Crooked iron may be straightened with a hammer."
"Danish","Despise not a small wound, a poor kinsman, or an humble enemy."
"Danish","Correction is good when administered in time."
"Danish","Chop, and you will have splinters."
"Danish","Children are the riches of the poor."
"Danish","Children are certain cares, but uncertain comforts."
"Danish","Children are a poor man's wealth."
"Danish","Children and fools Shouldn't play with edged tools."
"Danish","Children and drunken men speak the truth."
"Danish","Cunning has little honour."
"Danish","A good handicraft has a golden foundation."
"Danish","A green Yule makes a fat churchyard."
"Danish","A green Christmas makes a fat churchyard."
"Danish","A greedy mill grinds all kinds of corn."
"Danish","A goose drinks as much as a gander."
"Danish","A good plan today is better than a perfect plan tomorrow."
"Danish","A good pilot is not known when the sea is calm and the weather fair."
"Danish","All keys hang not at one woman's girdle."
"Danish","A good king is better than an old law."
"Danish","A head is not to be cut off because it is scabby."
"Danish","A golden key opens every door except that of heaven."
"Danish","A glad heart seldom sighs, but a sorrowful mouth often laughs."
"Danish","A full vessel must be carried carefully."
"Danish","A full stomach praises Lent."
"Danish","A full belly dances better than a fine coat."
"Danish","A friend's frown is better than a fool's smile."
"Danish","A friend's faults may be notices, but not blamed."
"Danish","A good neighbour is better than a brother far off."
"Danish","A lass that has many wooers often fares the worst."
"Danish","A man does not always aim at what he means to hit."
"Danish","A man dances all the same, though he may dance against his will."
"Danish","A man conducts himself abroad as he has been taught at home."
"Danish","A man cannot carry all his kin on his back."
"Danish","A lord without land, is like a cask without wine."
"Danish","A little stone may upset a large cart."
"Danish","A little dog, a cow without horns, and a short man, are generally proud."
"Danish","A gross belly does not produce a refined mind."
"Danish","A lazy boy and a warm bed are difficult to part."
"Danish","A hard bit does not make the better horse."
"Danish","A large fire often comes from a small spark."
"Danish","A joyous evening often leads to a sorrowful morning."
"Danish","A hungry dog and a thirsty horse take no heed of blows."
"Danish","A hundred waggonsful of sorrow will not pay a handful of debt."
"Danish","A hearth of your own is worth gold."
"Danish","A headstrong man and a fool may wear the same cap."
"Danish","A fool laughs when others laugh."
"Danish","A lean calf forgets to skip."
"Danish","A bold attempt is half success."
"Danish","A foul mouth must be provided with a strong back."
"Danish","A clean hand moves freely through the land."
"Danish","A child's sorrow is short-lived."
"Danish","A child's back must be bent early."
"Danish","A child must creep until it learns to walk."
"Danish","A burnt child fears the fire, and a bitten child fears a dog."
"Danish","A bow long bent at length waxeth weak."
"Danish","A cow is not called dappled unless she has a spot."
"Danish","A bold man has luck in his train."
"Danish","A cross-grained woman and a snappish dog take care of the house."
"Danish","A blind pigeon may sometimes find a grain of wheat."
"Danish","A bird never flew on one wing."
"Danish","A bird may be ever so small, it always seeks a nest of its own."
"Danish","A barren sow is never kind to pigs."
"Danish","A bad wife wishes her husband's heel turned homewards, and not his toe."
"Danish","A bad tree does not yield good apples."
"Danish","A bad horse eats as much as a good one."
"Danish","A borrowed horse and your own spurs make short miles."
"Danish","A dog is a dog whatever his colour."
"Danish","A man is not a lord because he feeds off fine dishes."
"Danish","A fool is like other men as long as he is silent."
"Danish","A fool is like all other men as long as he remains silent."
"Danish","A fair face will get its praise, though the owner keep silent."
"Danish","A fair exchange is no robbery."
"Danish","A fair exchange brings no quarrel."
"Danish","A duck will not always dabble in the same gutter."
"Danish","A clever man's inheritance is found in every country."
"Danish","A drunken may soon be made to dance."
"Danish","A fool only wins the first game."
"Danish","A deaf auditor makes a crazy answerer."
"Danish","A customary railer is the devil's bagpipe, which the world danceth after."
"Danish","A cursed cur should be short tied."
"Danish","A curse will not strike out an eye, unless the fist go with it."
"Danish","A crowd is not company."
"Danish","A crow thinks her own bird fairest."
"Danish","A crow is never the whiter for often washing."
"Danish","A drunken night makes a cloudy morning."
"Danish","A truth-teller finds the doors closed against him."
"Danish","A stepmother has a hard hand."
"Danish","A woman's first counsel is the best."
"Danish","A woman may be ever so old, if she take fire she will jump."
"Danish","A wise lawyer never goes to law himself."
"Danish","A wise head makes a close mouth."
"Danish","A wise head hath a close mouth to it."
"Danish","A wise falcon hides his talons."
"Danish","A young man idle, an old man needy."
"Danish","A truth-telling woman has few friends."
"Danish","A young man married is a young man marred."
"Danish","A tottering man must lean upon a staff."
"Danish","A timid man has little chance."
"Danish","A threatened man lives long, if he can get bread."
"Danish","A thief thinks every man steals."
"Danish","A thief does not willingly see another carry a basket."
"Danish","A thankless man never does a thankful deed."
"Danish","A man does not look behind the door unless he has stood there himself."
"Danish","A willing helper does not wait until he is asked."
"Danish","Advice after injury is like medicine after death."
"Danish","Every bird needs its own feathers."
"Danish","All are not good cooks who carry long knives."
"Danish","Age may wrinkle the face, but lack of enthusiasm wrinkles the soul."
"Danish","Age makes many a man whiter, but not better."
"Danish","Age is a sorry travelling companion."
"Danish","After pleasant scratching comes unpleasant smarting."
"Danish","After one that earns one that wastes."
"Danish","A young foal and an old horse draw not well together."
"Danish","Advice after the mischief is like medicine after death."
"Danish","A sparrow suffers as much when it breaks its leg as does a Flanders horse."
"Danish","Adam got a hoe, and Eve got a spinning-wheel, and thence come all our nobles."
"Danish","Act so in the valley, that you need not fear those who stand on the hill."
"Danish","Act in the valley so that you need not fear those who stand on the hill."
"Danish","Act honestly, and answer boldly."
"Danish","According to his pinions the bird flies."
"Danish","Abstinence and fasting cure many a complaint."
"Danish","A young preacher, a new hell."
"Danish","Advice to a fool goes in at one ear and out at the other."
"Danish","A modest dog seldom grows fat."
"Danish","A stern chase is a long chase."
"Danish","A poor man has few acquaintances."
"Danish","A pleasant think never comes too soon."
"Danish","A pet child has many names."
"Danish","A penny in time is as good as a dollar."
"Danish","A pair of light shoes is not all that is needed for dancing."
"Danish","A neighbour's eye is full of jealousy."
"Danish","A priest's pocket is not easily filled."
"Danish","A moneyless man goes fast through the market."
"Danish","A princely mind will undo a private family."
"Danish","A meagre compromise is better than a fat lawsuit."
"Danish","A man's will is his heaven."
"Danish","A man's character reaches town before his person."
"Danish","A man who is not spoken of is not abused."
"Danish","A man often kisses the hand he would like to see cut off."
"Danish","A man must keep his mouth open a long while before a roast pigeon files into it."
"Danish","All hairy skins must not be singed."
"Danish","A naughty child must be roughly rocked."
"Danish","A short rest is always good."
"Danish","A sow may whistle, though it has an ill mouth for it."
"Danish","A sow may find an acorn as well as a hog."
"Danish","A smooth tongue is better than smooth locks."
"Danish","A small fire that warms you, is better than a large one that burns you."
"Danish","A small cloud may hide both sun and moon."
"Danish","A small bolt to the house is better than none at all."
"Danish","A slight suspicion may destroy a good repute."
"Danish","A poor man's joy has much alloy."
"Danish","A silent man's words are not brought into court."
"Danish","A man is bound by his word, an ox with a hempen cord."
"Danish","A short cut is often a wrong cut."
"Danish","A scald head need strong lye."
"Danish","A royal heart is often hid under a tattered cloak."
"Danish","A rod is better than a fox's brush."
"Danish","A rickety chair will not long serve as a seat."
"Danish","A rich wife is a source of quarrel."
"Danish","A rich child often sits in a poor mother's lap."
"Danish","A silly song may be sung in many ways."
"Danish","He who stands high is seen from afar."
"Danish","He who was born to pennies, will never be master of dollars."
"Danish","He who was born to be hanged will not be drowned, unless the water go over the gallows."
"Danish","He who waits for dead men's shoes, may have to go long barefoot."
"Danish","He who throws himself under the bench will be left to lie there."
"Danish","He who tastes every man's broth, often burns his mouth."
"Danish","He who takes the child by the hand, takes the mother by the heart."
"Danish","He that wants to hang a dog, says that it bites the sheep."
"Danish","He who stands near the woodcutter is likely to be hit by a splinter."
"Danish","He who will not prosper in his sleep will not prosper when awake."
"Danish","He who spends more than he should Shall not have to spend when he would."
"Danish","He who speaks ill of himself is praised by no one."
"Danish","He who sows peas on the highway does not get all the pods into his barn."
"Danish","He who sows money, will reap poverty."
"Danish","He who sows little, reaps little."
"Danish","He who sows inequity shall reap shame."
"Danish","He who sows hatred shall gather rue."
"Danish","He who strikes another on the neck, does not strike far from the head."
"Danish","He who would enjoy the fire must bear its smoke."
"Danish","He who would serve everybody gets thanks from nobody."
"Danish","He who would seek revenge must be on his own guard."
"Danish","He who would save, should begin with the mouth."
"Danish","He who would not go to hell, must not go to court."
"Danish","He who would make a fool of himself will find many to like him."
"Danish","He who would leap high must take a long run."
"Danish","He who would leap far must first take a long run."
"Danish","He who whispers, lies."
"Danish","He who would hang himself is sure to find a rope."
"Danish","He who will not obey father, will have to obey stepfather."
"Danish","He who would eat the kernel, must crack the nut."
"Danish","He who would drive another over three dikes must climb over two himself."
"Danish","He who would close another man's mouth, should first tie up his own."
"Danish","He who would be everywhere will be nowhere."
"Danish","He who wills the end, wills the means."
"Danish","He who will not take cheap advice, will have to buy dear repentance."
"Danish","He who marries a widow with three children, marries four thieves."
"Danish","He who would have good cabbage, must pay its price."
"Danish","He who despises small things seldom grows rich."
"Danish","He who rises early will gather wisdom."
"Danish","He who has been bitten by a snake is afraid of an eel."
"Danish","He who has bad neighbours is fain to praise himself."
"Danish","He who has a white horse and a fair wife is seldom without trouble."
"Danish","He who has a glass roof on his own house, must not throw stones at others."
"Danish","He who feels himself scabby, let him scratch."
"Danish","Even he gets on who is drawn by oxen."
"Danish","He who has no falcon, must hunt with owls."
"Danish","Every man carries an enemy in his own bosom."
"Danish","He who has plenty of butter, may put some in his cabbage."
"Danish","He who comes first to the mill is first served."
"Danish","He who can't get bacon, must be content with cabbage."
"Danish","He who can sit upon a stone and feed himself should not move."
"Danish","He who builds according to every man's advise will have a crooked house."
"Danish","He who abuses others must not be particular about the answer he gets."
"Danish","He that you seat upon your shoulder will often try to get upon your head."
"Danish","He that was born under a three-halfpenny planet shall never be worth twopence."
"Danish","He who feeds a wolf, strengthens his enemy."
"Danish","He who is far from home, is near to harm."
"Danish","Hear one man before you answer; hear several before you decide."
"Danish","He who loves sorrow, will always find something to mourn over."
"Danish","He who lives without restraint, will die without honour."
"Danish","He who lies down in the wash will be eaten by swine."
"Danish","He who knows how to beg may leave his money at home."
"Danish","He who knows a knave, makes no bid for him."
"Danish","He who is scared by words, has no heart for deeds."
"Danish","He who has many irons in the fire, will let some of them burn."
"Danish","He who is fed by another's hand seldom gets enough."
"Danish","He who rides the horse is his master."
"Danish","He who is everywhere, is nowhere."
"Danish","He who is ashamed of asking, is ashamed of learning."
"Danish","He who is afraid to ask is ashamed of learning."
"Danish","He who hunts with cats will catch mice."
"Danish","He who hunts two hares from one bush, is not likely to catch either."
"Danish","He who hesitates is lost."
"Danish","He who herds with wolves, learns to howl."
"Danish","He who is of no use to himself, is of no use to any one."
"Danish","It does not become the sparrow to mix in the dance of the cranes."
"Danish","If you would catch a fox you must hunt with geese."
"Danish","It is a bold mouse that makes her nest in the cat's ear."
"Danish","It is a base thing to tear a dead lion's beard off."
"Danish","It is a bad well that need water to be carried to it."
"Danish","It is a bad sheep that is too lazy to carry its own fleece."
"Danish","It is a bad hen that lays her eggs away from the farm."
"Danish","It is a bad hand that refuses to guard the head."
"Danish","It is a lazy bird that will not build its own nest."
"Danish","It does not depend upon the dog when the horse shall die."
"Danish","It is a poor horse that is not worth his oats."
"Danish","In war it is best to tie your horse to a strange manger."
"Danish","In the ant's house, the dew is a flood."
"Danish","In taking revenge, a man is but even with his enemy; but in passing it over, he is superior."
"Danish","In still waters are the largest fish."
"Danish","In still water the worms are worst."
"Danish","In still water are the largest fish."
"Danish","He who would steal honey, must not be afraid of bees."
"Danish","It has been blowing hard--the dirt has been blown into high places."
"Danish","It is bad iron in which there is no steel."
"Danish","It is better to scrape the cheese than to peel it."
"Danish","It is better to make conditions in the bush than in prison."
"Danish","It is better to buy dearly than to hunger direly."
"Danish","It is best to trust to two anchors. [Have two strings to your bow.]"
"Danish","It is best to play with equals."
"Danish","It is best to be on the safe side."
"Danish","It is best to be off with the old love before you are on with the new."
"Danish","It is a great art to laugh at you own misfortune."
"Danish","It is bad to be between two fires."
"Danish","If you wish a thing done, go; if not, send."
"Danish","It is bad for puppies to play with bear-cubs."
"Danish","It is as well to be naked as to have no covering."
"Danish","It is as much intemperance to weep too much, as to laugh too much."
"Danish","It is as cheap sitting as standing."
"Danish","It is as bad to spit out the fire and be shamed, as it is to swallow it and be burnt."
"Danish","It is an ill wind that blows nobody good."
"Danish","It is an ill turn that does no good to any one."
"Danish","It is bad to lean against a falling wall."
"Danish","Honour the tree that gives you shelter."
"Danish","Ill weeds grow the fastest and last the longest."
"Danish","Human blood is all of one colour."
"Danish","However high a bird may soar, it seeks its food on earth."
"Danish","Hope springs eternal."
"Danish","Hope is the dream of the waking."
"Danish","Hope is an egg of which one man gets the yolk, another the white, and a third the shell."
"Danish","Hope for the best and prepare for the worst."
"Danish","I would rather see smoke from my own chimney than the fire on another's hearth."
"Danish","Hope and expectation are a fool's income."
"Danish","I'll go myself, and ""I'll see to it,"" are two good servants on a farm."
"Danish","Honour the old, teach the young."
"Danish","Honor buys no meat in the market."
"Danish","Honeyed speech often conceals poison and gall."
"Danish","Hold your dog in readiness before you start the hare."
"Danish","Help the lame dog over the stile."
"Danish","Help is good everywhere, except in the porridge-bowl."
"Danish","He who does look before him, must take misfortune for his earnings."
"Danish","Hope deferred makes the heart sick."
"Danish","If lies are to find credence, they must be patched with truth."
"Danish","If you will stir up the mire, you must bear the smell."
"Danish","If you play with the fool at home, he will play with you abroad."
"Danish","If you have learnt to wait, you may be Queen of Sweden."
"Danish","If you cannot get the bird, get one of its feathers."
"Danish","If thoughts were legal witnesses, many an honest man would be proved a rogue."
"Danish","If the hen did not cackle no one would know what she had been about."
"Danish","If the best man's faults were written on his forehead, it would make him pull his hat over his eyes."
"Danish","I am a judge of cresses, said the peasant, as he was eating hemlock."
"Danish","If lies were Latin, there would be many learned men."
"Danish","He will never get into the wood who starts at every bush."
"Danish","If it is to be luck, the bull may as well calve as the cow."
"Danish","If God give not bushelfuls, he gives spoonfuls."
"Danish","If God bids thee draw, he will find thee a rope; if he bids thee ride, he will find thee a horse."
"Danish","If envy were a fever, all the world would be ill."
"Danish","If a man has folly in his sleeve, it will be sure to peep out."
"Danish","If a beard were all, the goat would be the winner."
"Danish","Idleness is the devil's bolster."
"Danish","If the beard were all, the goat might preach."
"Danish","Fortune often knocks at the door, but the fool does not invite her in."
"Danish","Give a rogue an inch, and he will take an ell."
"Danish","Give a pig when it grunts, and a child when it cries, and you will have a fine pig, and a bad child."
"Danish","Gifts should be handed, not thrown."
"Danish","Gifts make friendship lasting."
"Danish","From praise, as from a shadow, a man is neither bigger nor smaller."
"Danish","From clogs to clogs is only three generations."
"Danish","Great lords have long hands, but they do not reach to heaven."
"Danish","Fortune rarely brings good or evil singly."
"Danish","Give your wife the short knife, and keep the long one for yourself."
"Danish","For a good dinner and a gentle wife you can afford to wait."
"Danish","Follow the customs, or fly the country."
"Danish","Flattery is sweet food for those who can swallow it."
"Danish","Fish and guests stink after three days."
"Danish","Fish and guests smell at three days old."
"Danish","Fire and water are good servants but bad masters."
"Danish","Fire and straw soon make a flame."
"Danish","From children you must expect childish acts."
"Danish","God help the sheep when the wolf is judge."
"Danish","Govern a horse with a bit, and a shrew with a stick."
"Danish","Good never comes too often."
"Danish","A bad hair cut is two people's shame."
"Danish","Good counsel is no better than bad counsel, if it be not taken in time."
"Danish","Good counsel will not rot, if it be got in dry."
"Danish","Gold is proved in the fire, friendship in need."
"Danish","God sends men cold according to their clothes."
"Danish","Give a thing, and take a thing, to wear the devil's gold ring."
"Danish","He that wants to hang a dog, is sure to find a rope."
"Danish","Give to a pig when it grunts and a child when it cries , and you will have a fine pig and a bad child."
"Danish","He who feeds the hen out to have the egg."
"Danish","God gives little folks small gifts."
"Danish","God gives every bird its food, but does not throw it into the nest."
"Danish","God gives all birds their food but does not drop it into their nests."
"Danish","God cometh with leaden feet, but striketh with iron hands."
"Danish","God comes at last, when we think he is farthest off."
"Danish","Fine words butter no parsnips."
"Danish","God permits the wicked; but not for ever."
"Danish","Every one rakes the fire under his own pot."
"Danish","Fingers were made before forks."
"Danish","Evil must be driven out by evil."
"Danish","Evil is soon done, but slowly mended."
"Danish","Everything has an end."
"Danish","Everything has an end--except a sausage, which has two."
"Danish","Every wind is against a leaky ship."
"Danish","Every tub must stand on its own bottom."
"Danish","Eye-service is the courtier's art."
"Danish","Every one sees his smart coat, no one sees his shrunken belly."
"Danish","Faint praise is akin to abuse."
"Danish","Every one finds sin sweet and repentance bitter."
"Danish","Every man must go to the mill with his own sack."
"Danish","Every man must carry his own sack to the mill."
"Danish","Every man likes his own praise best."
"Danish","Every man is the architect of his own fortune."
"Danish","Every man has his lot, and a wide world before him."
"Danish","Every man has his liking."
"Danish","Every one tries to cross the fence where it is lowest."
"Danish","Faults are thick where love is thin."
"Danish","God never sends mouths but he sends meat."
"Danish","Fine linen often conceals scabby skin."
"Danish","Fields have eyes and woods have ears."
"Danish","Fie upon thee, how black thou art! said the kettle to the saucepan."
"Danish","Few words are best."
"Danish","Few women turn grey because their husband dies."
"Danish","Few there are that will endure a true friend."
"Danish","Evil wastes itself."
"Danish","Favour and gifts disturb justice."
"Danish","Fine words without deeds go not far."
"Danish","Father and mother are kind, but God is kinder."
"Danish","Fame and repute follow a man to the door."
"Danish","Falseness often lurks beneath fair hair."
"Danish","Falsehood, like a nettle, stings those who meddle with it."
"Danish","Falsehood travels and grows."
"Danish","Falsehood never tires of going round about."
"Danish","Falsehood is the Devil's daughter, and speaks her father's tongue."
"Danish","Few have luck, all have death."
"Danish","He sits well who can rise without help."
"Danish","He must have clean fingers who would blow another's nose."
"Danish","He that desires but little has no need of much."
"Danish","He that deals in dirt has ay foul fingers."
"Danish","He that dares not venture must not complain of ill luck."
"Danish","He that dallies with his enemy gives him leave to kill him."
"Danish","God gives the will, necessity gives the law."
"Danish","He that courts injury will obtain it."
"Danish","He that does you a very ill turn will never forgive you."
"Danish","He that bears the cross, blesses himself first."
"Danish","He that doth most at once doth least."
"Danish","He scolds most that can hurt the least."
"Danish","He runs heavily who is forced to run."
"Danish","He needs a long spoon that would eat out of the same dish with the devil."
"Danish","He must stand high that would see the end of his own destiny."
"Danish","He must keep a sharp look-out who would speak the truth."
"Danish","He must have much meal who would stop all mouths."
"Danish","He must have iron fingers who would flay the devil."
"Danish","Great lords will have much, and poor folk can give but little."
"Danish","He that laughs at his ain joke spoils the sport o't."
"Danish","He that touches pitch shall be defiled."
"Danish","He that touches pitch defiles himself."
"Danish","He that sings himself is the best pleased."
"Danish","He that says what he should not, will hear what he would not."
"Danish","He that performs his own errand saves the messenger's hire."
"Danish","He that lives upon hope will die fasting."
"Danish","He that lives on hope has but a slender diet."
"Danish","He that does not save pennies, will never have pounds."
"Danish","He that lies down with the dogs, will get up with fleas."
"Danish","He that boasteth of himself affronteth his company."
"Danish","He that is once at sea, must either sail or sink."
"Danish","He that inquires much, learns much."
"Danish","He that holds is no better than he that scourges."
"Danish","He that hires one garden eats birds; he that hires more than one will be eaten by the birds."
"Danish","He that hides is no better than he that steals."
"Danish","He that has no money in his purse, should have fair words on his lips."
"Danish","He that drinks beer, thinks beer."
"Danish","He that lives in hope dances to an ill tune."
"Danish","He came time enough who was hung by candlelight."
"Danish","He is little suited to be a baker, whose head is made of butter."
"Danish","He is a poor Smith who is afraid of sparks."
"Danish","He is a man, who acts like a man."
"Danish","He is a fool that praises himself, and he a madman that speaks ill of himself."
"Danish","He has command of the sack who is seated on it."
"Danish","He had need rise betimes who would please everybody."
"Danish","He fears the sack who has been in it."
"Danish","He is most cheated who cheats himself."
"Danish","He must cry aloud who would scare the devil."
"Danish","He does not live in this world that can skin a grindstone."
"Danish","He that cuts above himself, will get splinters in his eye."
"Danish","Happy he who can take warning from the mishaps of others."
"Danish","Hang the young thief, and the old one will not steal."
"Danish","Hair does not grow faster by being pulled."
"Danish","Hair by hair and the head gets bald."
"Danish","Had it not been for an if, the old woman would have bitten a wolf."
"Danish","Grey hairs are death's blossoms."
"Danish","He drives a good waggonful into his farm who gets a good wife."
"Danish","He is young enough who has health, and he is rich enough who has no debts."
"Danish","Happy is he who knows his follies in his youth."
"Danish","He is most likely to spill who holds the vessel in his hand."
"Danish","He must be pure who would blame another."
"Danish","He must be ill-favoured who scares the devil."
"Danish","He must be a clever host that would take the devil into his hostelry."
"Danish","He loves me as the devil loves holy water."
"Danish","He loses least in a quarrel who keeps his tongue in cheek."
"Danish","He knows the water best who has waded through it."
"Danish","He knocks boldly at the door who brings a welcome message."
"Danish","He is not yet born who can please everybody."
"Danish","He is not a bad driver who knows how to turn."
"Danish","He is no small knave who knows a great one."
"Danish","He is never likely to have a good thing cheap that is afraid to ask a price."
"Danish","He is nearest to God who has the fewest wants."
"Danish","He is nearest a thing, who has it in his hands."
"Danish","He is my friend that succoureth me, not he that pitieth me."
"Danish","He is my friend that grindeth at my mill."
"Danish","He knows best where the shoe pinches who wears it."
"Danish, Dutch","Every man's friend is every man's fool."
"Danish, Dutch","The cow gives good milk, but kicks over the pail."
"Danish, Dutch","Need makes the old wife trot."
"Danish, Dutch","The cow does not know the value of her tail till she has lost it."
"Danish, Dutch","It is a poor mouse that has but one hole."
"Danish, Dutch","Fair words won't fill the sack."
"Danish, Dutch","Help yourself, and God will help you."
"Danish, Dutch","Little fish are sweet."
"Danish, Dutch, French, German","Set a thief to catch a thief."
"Danish, Dutch, French, German","Set hard heart against hard hap."
"Danish, Dutch, French, German, Italian, Portuguese","Strike while the iron is hot."
"Danish, Dutch, French, German, Italian, Portuguese","Well begun is half done."
"Danish, Dutch, French, German, Italian, Spanish","Look not a gift horse in the mouth."
"Danish, Dutch, French, German, Italian, Spanish","Look not out for dead men's shoes."
"Danish, Dutch, French, German, Portuguese, Spanish","Out of the fullness of the heart the mouth speaks."
"Danish, Dutch, French, German, Portuguese, Spanish","Out of the fulness of the heart the mouth speaketh."
"Danish, Dutch, French, German, Portuguese, Spanish","Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee."
"Danish, Dutch, French, German, Portuguese, Spanish","Out of sight out of mind."
"Danish, Dutch, French, Italian","Hunger is the best sauce."
"Danish, Dutch, German","It is good to sleep in a whole skin."
"Danish, Dutch, German","The morning hour has gold in its mouth."
"Danish, Dutch, German, Italian","New brooms sweep clean."
"Danish, Dutch, German, Spanish","Man proposes, God disposes."
"Danish, Dutch, German, Spanish","Man punishes the action, but God the intention."
"Danish, Dutch, Irish","Necessity knows no law."
"Danish, Dutch, Italian","Three women and a goose make a market."
"Danish, Dutch, Italian, Spanish","One swallow does not make a summer."
"Danish, English","Luck has but a slender anchorage."
"Danish, English, French, German, Portuguese","When the cat's away the mice will play."
"Danish, English, German","Still waters run deep."
"Danish, French","None so deaf as those who won't hear."
"Danish, French","Wash a dog, comb a dog, still a dog remains a dog."
"Danish, French, German","All are not hunters that blow the horn."
"Danish, French, German","Faint heart never won fair lady."
"Danish, French, German, Spanish","As you make your bed so you must lie on it."
"Danish, French, German, Spanish","As you make your bed so you must lie upon it."
"Danish, French, Italian","Love me little and love me long."
"Danish, French, Italian","Like will to like."
"Danish, French, Italian","Likeness is the mother of love."
"Danish, French, Italian","Lilies are whitest in a blackmoor's hand."
"Danish, German","Every man thinks his copper is gold."
"Danish, German","Every man thinks his own geese swans."
"Danish, German","Everybody says it, nobody knows it."
"Danish, German","Great men's requests are commands."
"Danish, German","He who laughs last, laughs best."
"Danish, German","He who laughs last, laughs longest."
"Danish, German","He who tickles himself can laugh when he pleases."
"Danish, German","It is a wise child that knows its own father."
"Danish, German","It is no child's play when an old woman dances."
"Danish, German","Let every man carry his own sack to the mill."
"Danish, Italian","What is done cannot be undone."
"Danish, Italian","One Englishman can beat three Frenchmen."
"Danish, Italian","One enemy is too much, and a hundred friends are not enough."
"Danish, Italian","He who has a good neighbour has a good morning."
"Danish, Spanish","Marry you son when you will, and your daughter when you can."
"Darkovan","Take care of the pence and the pounds will take care of themselves."
"Darkovan","Take care how you beseech the gods for a gift, for they will give it to you."
"Darkovan","Rats make havoc in the kitchen when the cat's a kitten."
"Darkovan","The best horse can't wear two saddles."
"Darkovan","Put no faith in a drunkard's prophecy, another man's dog, or the weather at any season."
"Darkovan","That land fares ill where the king's but a babe."
"Darkovan","The dead cannot come to kinsmen's aid."
"Darkovan","The dead in heaven is too happy to grieve for indignities to his corpse; the dead in hell has too much else to grieve for."
"Darkovan","The rain can only drown the mud-rabbit if he hasn't the wits to keep his mouth shut."
"Darkovan","The world goes as it will and not as you or I would want it."
"Darkovan","Only men laugh, only men weep, only men dance."
"Darkovan","Nothing in this world is certain but death and next winter's snows."
"Darkovan","The wine has been poured and must be drunk."
"Darkovan","The rain does not all fall on one roof."
"Darkovan","The sex of a cralmac is of interest only to another cralmac."
"Darkovan","The mouse in the wall may look at a cat, but he is wise not to squeak about it."
"Darkovan","On a steep road, let your horse set the pace."
"Darkovan","Not all porridge cooked is eaten."
"Darkovan","Not all brave words become deeds."
"Darkovan","You can't teach an old dog new tricks."
"Darkovan","The world goes as men make it go; and men are free to make it go otherwise, if they have the courage."
"Darkovan","Not even a god can bring back the leaves that have fallen."
"Darkovan","Nothing is certain but the unforeseen."
"Darkovan","Nothing is certain but death and taxes."
"Darkovan","Only a race horse or a Comyn lord is judged by his pedigree."
"Darkovan","On an uphill road, give your horse his reins."
"Darkovan","One does not breed a good bitch in her first heat."
"Darkovan","One generation plants the trees, the next eats the fruit."
"Darkovan","One lamp can't light two houses."
"Darkovan","One law for the rich and another for the poor."
"Darkovan","One who is false to her first oath will be false to her second."
"Darkovan","Not even the Lord of Light can turn back time, or undo what has been done."
"Darkovan","You cannot eat nuts without breaking some shells."
"Darkovan","You can't bind a cloud even with copper chains."
"Darkovan","While the mouse in the walls may look from afar at a cat, he does well not to go squeaking about it."
"Darkovan","Who grudges his blood to a blade had better earn his living behind the plow."
"Darkovan","Who picks a tool unsuited to a task should not complain if it does no more than cut the hand that holds it."
"Darkovan","Willing exile is exile nonetheless."
"Darkovan","Where vice is vengeance follows."
"Darkovan","You can't tell a book by its cover."
"Darkovan","Where vain-glory reigns, folly is prime counsellor."
"Darkovan","You cannot forge a hammer from featherpod fluff, nor spin spidersilk from precious copper."
"Darkovan","You cannot get a quart into a pint pot."
"Darkovan","You cannot get blood from a stone."
"Darkovan","You cannot take hawks without climbing some cliffs."
"Darkovan","If Candlemas day be sunny and bright, winter will have another flight; if Candlemas day be cloudy with rain, winter is gone and won't come again."
"Darkovan","Not a long day, but a good heart, rids work."
"Darkovan","You can't teach an old dog how to gnaw a bone."
"Darkovan","We will ride that colt when he is grown to wear a saddle."
"Darkovan","There is no way to teach a machine wisdom after folly."
"Darkovan","There is nothing so evil as the mind of a virtuous woman."
"Darkovan","There is nothing so good for the inside of a man as the outside of a horse."
"Darkovan","Underneath every bush you'll find a mud rabbit ready to bolt."
"Darkovan","Unemployment does not guarantee leisure."
"Darkovan","Where villany goes before, vengeance follows after."
"Darkovan","We will fly that hawk when his pinions are grown."
"Darkovan","There is neither wisdom nor courage in an empty belly."
"Darkovan","We'll cross that bridge when we come to it."
"Darkovan","Wear no sword at kinsman's board."
"Darkovan","What is done under the four moons need never be recalled nor regretted."
"Darkovan","What the gods make, the planet can find use for."
"Darkovan","When bredin split, enemies enter the gap."
"Darkovan","Where two women rule a hearth-fire, the thatch may burn with the sparks flying."
"Darkovan","Water can float a boat or sink it."
"Darkovan","Fire is a good servant but a poor master."
"Darkovan","Grief unspoken turns to poison."
"Darkovan","Don't trust your bone to another man's dog."
"Darkovan","Don't try to buy fish in the Dry Towns."
"Darkovan","Don't try to run before you can walk."
"Darkovan","Each man must ride the road of his own fate."
"Darkovan","Don't ask a dog to judge between a pillar and a tree."
"Darkovan","Falcons don't fly after cage-birds."
"Darkovan","Does the left hand chop off the right?"
"Darkovan","Foresight could make wise men of Durraman's donkeys."
"Darkovan","Forget favours you have bestowed, remember those you have received."
"Darkovan","Get three Darkovans together and they hold a dance."
"Darkovan","Get thy spindle and thy distaff ready, and God will send flax."
"Darkovan","Give the Goddess her due, even when her due is grief."
"Darkovan","Good news crawls on its belly; bad news has wings."
"Darkovan","Eggs should not fight stones."
"Darkovan","Bare is brotherless back."
"Darkovan","A devil with fine manners can still carry you only to hell."
"Darkovan","A hawk kills because it is his nature; a man because it is his pleasure."
"Darkovan","A rabbithorn cannot be a war-horse and will only become a laughingstock if he should try."
"Darkovan","A roan horse and a black can travel equally far in a day's journey."
"Darkovan","All the smiths . . . can't mend a broken egg."
"Darkovan","Don't kick the horse you have to ride."
"Darkovan","An oath broken by one does not thereafter bind the other."
"Darkovan","Each snowflake in an avalanche pleads its innocence."
"Darkovan","Better lady in a cottage than serving-woman in a castle."
"Darkovan","Call a woman a harlot and you make her one."
"Darkovan","Can a burst dam be mended with toothpicks?"
"Darkovan","Can a mill go with the water that's past?"
"Darkovan","Can a mouse fall in love with a cat?"
"Darkovan","Chickens can't go back into eggs."
"Darkovan","All women are alike when the lamp is out."
"Darkovan","He who lives more lives than one, more deaths than one must die."
"Darkovan","If you lie down with dogs, you will get up with fleas."
"Darkovan","If you lie upon roses when young, you will lie upon thorns when old."
"Darkovan","If you listen to dogs barking, you'll go deaf and never learn much."
"Darkovan","It is ill done to chain a dragon for roasting your meat."
"Darkovan","It is no use fretting after last winter's snow."
"Darkovan","It needs no laran to prophesy snow at midwinter."
"Darkovan","If you lie down with a man, you may rise up as a woman."
"Darkovan","Kinsmen are born, but friendship is a gift of the gods."
"Darkovan","Love is love no matter whence it comes or in what form."
"Darkovan","Love is the art of making exceptions."
"Darkovan","Don't try to walk before you can crawl."
"Darkovan","Necessity could make a thief."
"Darkovan","No choice is ever wholly unregretted, each brings more joy and more sorrow than we can foresee."
"Darkovan","No man can make another's destiny and all the wishing in the world will not make it so."
"Darkovan","No man is so young he cannot teach, or so old he cannot learn."
"Darkovan","It never rains but it pours."
"Darkovan","If the ball does not stick to the wall, yet 'twill leave some mark."
"Darkovan","If you have a bulldozer, you don't need a snow shovel."
"Darkovan","If in February there be no rain, 'tis neither good for hay nor grain."
"Darkovan","If ill luck were cheese, dairy-women would go wanting work."
"Darkovan","None so keen at the hunting of wolves as the dog with wolf blood."
"Darkovan","Lucky charms protect you only if you have your own luck."
"Darkovan","If stupidity were a crime, half the human race would be hanged at every crossroads."
"Darkovan","If the left hand battles the right, who wins?"
"Darkovan","If the lion's skin cannot, the fox's shall."
"Darkovan","If you are going to steal horses, steal thoroughbreds."
"Darkovan","If blood is spilt on you before breakfast, you will shed blood before nightfall."
"Darkovan","If you are kind to the cruel, you will be cruel to the kind."
"Darkovan","If you are praised by a villain, mend your ways at once."
"Darkovan","If you are ready to believe, you are easy to deceive."
"Darkovan","If it ain't broke, don't fix it."
"Darkovan","The dead cannot come to kinsmen's aid."
"Darkovan","Only a race horse or a Comyn lord is judged by his pedigree."
"Darkovan","Only men laugh, only men weep, only men dance."
"Darkovan","Put no faith in a drunkard's prophecy, another man's dog, or the weather at any season."
"Darkovan","Rats make havoc in the kitchen when the cat's a kitten."
"Darkovan","Take care how you beseech the gods for a gift, for they will give it to you."
"Darkovan","Take care of the pence and the pounds will take care of themselves."
"Darkovan","The best horse can't wear two saddles."
"Darkovan","One lamp can't light two houses."
"Darkovan","The dead in heaven is too happy to grieve for indignities to his corpse; the dead in hell has too much else to grieve for."
"Darkovan","The mouse in the wall may look at a cat, but he is wise not to squeak about it."
"Darkovan","The rain can only drown the mud-rabbit if he hasn't the wits to keep his mouth shut."
"Darkovan","The rain does not all fall on one roof."
"Darkovan","The sex of a cralmac is of interest only to another cralmac."
"Darkovan","That land fares ill where the king's but a babe."
"Darkovan","One law for the rich and another for the poor."
"Darkovan","While the mouse in the walls may look from afar at a cat, he does well not to go squeaking about it."
"Darkovan","One generation plants the trees, the next eats the fruit."
"Darkovan","One does not breed a good bitch in her first heat."
"Darkovan","On an uphill road, give your horse his reins."
"Darkovan","On a steep road, let your horse set the pace."
"Darkovan","Nothing is certain but the unforeseen."
"Darkovan","Nothing is certain but death and taxes."
"Darkovan","Nothing in this world is certain but death and next winter's snows."
"Darkovan","Not even the Lord of Light can turn back time, or undo what has been done."
"Darkovan","Not even a god can bring back the leaves that have fallen."
"Darkovan","Not all porridge cooked is eaten."
"Darkovan","Not all brave words become deeds."
"Darkovan","The wine has been poured and must be drunk."
"Darkovan","One who is false to her first oath will be false to her second."
"Darkovan","Where vain-glory reigns, folly is prime counsellor."
"Darkovan","You cannot take hawks without climbing some cliffs."
"Darkovan","You cannot get blood from a stone."
"Darkovan","You cannot get a quart into a pint pot."
"Darkovan","You cannot forge a hammer from featherpod fluff, nor spin spidersilk from precious copper."
"Darkovan","You cannot eat nuts without breaking some shells."
"Darkovan","You can't tell a book by its cover."
"Darkovan","You can't teach an old dog new tricks."
"Darkovan","You can't teach an old dog how to gnaw a bone."
"Darkovan","You can't bind a cloud even with copper chains."
"Darkovan","Willing exile is exile nonetheless."
"Darkovan","Who picks a tool unsuited to a task should not complain if it does no more than cut the hand that holds it."
"Darkovan","Who grudges his blood to a blade had better earn his living behind the plow."
"Darkovan","We will ride that colt when he is grown to wear a saddle."
"Darkovan","Where vice is vengeance follows."
"Darkovan","Water can float a boat or sink it."
"Darkovan","The world goes as men make it go; and men are free to make it go otherwise, if they have the courage."
"Darkovan","There is neither wisdom nor courage in an empty belly."
"Darkovan","There is no way to teach a machine wisdom after folly."
"Darkovan","There is nothing so evil as the mind of a virtuous woman."
"Darkovan","There is nothing so good for the inside of a man as the outside of a horse."
"Darkovan","Where villany goes before, vengeance follows after."
"Darkovan","Unemployment does not guarantee leisure."
"Darkovan","Not a long day, but a good heart, rids work."
"Darkovan","We will fly that hawk when his pinions are grown."
"Darkovan","We'll cross that bridge when we come to it."
"Darkovan","What is done under the four moons need never be recalled nor regretted."
"Darkovan","When bredin split, enemies enter the gap."
"Darkovan","Where two women rule a hearth-fire, the thatch may burn with the sparks flying."
"Darkovan","The world goes as it will and not as you or I would want it."
"Darkovan","Underneath every bush you'll find a mud rabbit ready to bolt."
"Darkovan","Does the left hand chop off the right?"
"Darkovan","Get thy spindle and thy distaff ready, and God will send flax."
"Darkovan","Get three Darkovans together and they hold a dance."
"Darkovan","Forget favours you have bestowed, remember those you have received."
"Darkovan","Foresight could make wise men of Durraman's donkeys."
"Darkovan","Fire is a good servant but a poor master."
"Darkovan","Falcons don't fly after cage-birds."
"Darkovan","Eggs should not fight stones."
"Darkovan","Each snowflake in an avalanche pleads its innocence."
"Darkovan","Each man must ride the road of his own fate."
"Darkovan","Don't try to walk before you can crawl."
"Darkovan","Don't try to run before you can walk."
"Darkovan","Don't try to buy fish in the Dry Towns."
"Darkovan","Don't trust your bone to another man's dog."
"Darkovan","Give the Goddess her due, even when her due is grief."
"Darkovan","Bare is brotherless back."
"Darkovan","A devil with fine manners can still carry you only to hell."
"Darkovan","Wear no sword at kinsman's board."
"Darkovan","None so keen at the hunting of wolves as the dog with wolf blood."
"Darkovan","A hawk kills because it is his nature; a man because it is his pleasure."
"Darkovan","A roan horse and a black can travel equally far in a day's journey."
"Darkovan","Don't kick the horse you have to ride."
"Darkovan","An oath broken by one does not thereafter bind the other."
"Darkovan","Don't ask a dog to judge between a pillar and a tree."
"Darkovan","Better lady in a cottage than serving-woman in a castle."
"Darkovan","Call a woman a harlot and you make her one."
"Darkovan","Can a mill go with the water that's past?"
"Darkovan","Can a mouse fall in love with a cat?"
"Darkovan","Chickens can't go back into eggs."
"Darkovan","All the smiths . . . can't mend a broken egg."
"Darkovan","All women are alike when the lamp is out."
"Darkovan","Love is love no matter whence it comes or in what form."
"Darkovan","If you lie down with dogs, you will get up with fleas."
"Darkovan","If you lie upon roses when young, you will lie upon thorns when old."
"Darkovan","If you listen to dogs barking, you'll go deaf and never learn much."
"Darkovan","It is ill done to chain a dragon for roasting your meat."
"Darkovan","It is no use fretting after last winter's snow."
"Darkovan","It needs no laran to prophesy snow at midwinter."
"Darkovan","If you lie down with a man, you may rise up as a woman."
"Darkovan","Kinsmen are born, but friendship is a gift of the gods."
"Darkovan","Love is the art of making exceptions."
"Darkovan","Lucky charms protect you only if you have your own luck."
"Darkovan","No man can make another's destiny and all the wishing in the world will not make it so."
"Darkovan","Good news crawls on its belly; bad news has wings."
"Darkovan","No man is so young he cannot teach, or so old he cannot learn."
"Darkovan","A rabbithorn cannot be a war-horse and will only become a laughingstock if he should try."
"Darkovan","No choice is ever wholly unregretted, each brings more joy and more sorrow than we can foresee."
"Darkovan","It never rains but it pours."
"Darkovan","If it ain't broke, don't fix it."
"Darkovan","If ill luck were cheese, dairy-women would go wanting work."
"Darkovan","He who lives more lives than one, more deaths than one must die."
"Darkovan","If you have a bulldozer, you don't need a snow shovel."
"Darkovan","If blood is spilt on you before breakfast, you will shed blood before nightfall."
"Darkovan","If in February there be no rain, 'tis neither good for hay nor grain."
"Darkovan","If stupidity were a crime, half the human race would be hanged at every crossroads."
"Darkovan","If the ball does not stick to the wall, yet 'twill leave some mark."
"Darkovan","Grief unspoken turns to poison."
"Darkovan","If the lion's skin cannot, the fox's shall."
"Darkovan","If you are ready to believe, you are easy to deceive."
"Darkovan","If you are praised by a villain, mend your ways at once."
"Darkovan","If you are going to steal horses, steal thoroughbreds."
"Darkovan","If the left hand battles the right, who wins?"
"Darkovan","If you are kind to the cruel, you will be cruel to the kind."
"Dayak","Where the heart is willing it will find a thousand ways, but where it is unwilling it will find a thousand excuses."
"Dogon","No one knows if a bird in flight has an egg in its stomach."
"Dominican","Life has always been a mixture of joy and pain, wealth and poverty."
"Dominican","Until the nail is hit, it doesn't believe in the hammer."
"Dominican","The rain that is going to fall doesn't wet you."
"Dominican","Appearance can be deceiving. A wolf can disguise himself as a sheep."
"Dominican","Only moving forward."
"Dominican","Nicknames are used in case the Devil comes asking for you."
"Dominican Republic","The devil always paints himself black, but we always see him rose-colored."
"Dominican Republic","The way of this world is to praise dead saints and persecute living ones."
"Dominican Republic","It is a fine thing to command, though it be only a herd of cattle."
"Dominican Republic","If fate throws a knife at you, there are two ways of catching it: by the blade or by the handle."
"Dominican Republic","Don't be like the shadow: a constant companion, yet not a comrade."
"Dominican Republic","Absence is the enemy of love; as the distance is from the eyes, so it is from the heart."
"Dominican Republic","A good surgeon must have a hawk's eye, a lion's heart and a woman's hand."
"Douala","The womb is not a boat, it cannot carry as much."
"Douala","A genius is he who is first to be right."
"Duala","If a bird does not recognise a tree, it will not rest on it."
"Duala","The corpse of a bird does not decompose in flight, but on the ground."
"Duala","The tracks of the elephant cancels those of the antelope."
"Duala","The predator lands on an unknown tree."
"Duala","The path leads towards loved ones not thorns."
"Duala","The heart is a locket that does not open easily."
"Duala","It is easier to transport a termite hill than have authority in a village."
"Duala","One should not beg with a basket."
"Duala","Flies' legs, like the tongue of critics, land on whatever they find."
"Duala","Even if thin, the elephant remains the king of the forest."
"Duala","A monkey cannot dare what an elephant can."
"Duala","A goat never grazes in the same place."
"Duala","A goat does not always graze in the same place."
"Dutch","When two quarrel, both are to blame."
"Dutch","Strew no roses before swine."
"Dutch","Every man's friend is every man's fool."
"Dutch","Falling teaches us to walk safely."
"Dutch","Everything has an end except God."
"Dutch","First catch your hare, then cook it."
"Dutch","First a turnip, then a sheep; next a cow, and then the gallows."
"Dutch","Fine words don't fill the belly."
"Dutch","Fine feathers make fine birds."
"Dutch","Feeling it from his water."
"Dutch","Fools are free all the world over."
"Dutch","Falling with the door into the house."
"Dutch","Fools ask questions that wise men cannot answer."
"Dutch","Fair words won't fill the sack."
"Dutch","Fair play's a jewel."
"Dutch","Fair money can cover mush that's foul."
"Dutch","Fair money can cover much that's foul."
"Dutch","Evil words corrupt good manners."
"Dutch","Everything has two handles."
"Dutch","Everything has an end with the exception of God."
"Dutch","Far fetched and dear bought is meat for ladies."
"Dutch","For the concert of life, no one receives a program."
"Dutch","Better to lose the anchor than the whole ship."
"Dutch","He who is outside his door already has a hard part of his journey behind him."
"Dutch","He who undertakes too much seldom succeeds."
"Dutch","A little pot boils easily."
"Dutch","Little pots soon run over."
"Dutch","Fortune and glass break easily."
"Dutch","Folly hath eagle's wings, but the eyes of an owl."
"Dutch","Forbear a quarrel with a friend to move: anger breeds hatred; concord sweetens love."
"Dutch","For a good appetite there is no hard bread."
"Dutch","For the cat's violin."
"Dutch","For great evils strong remedies."
"Dutch","Every man is master in his own house."
"Dutch","For an apple and an egg."
"Dutch","For a flying enemy make a silver bridge."
"Dutch","Fools build house and wise men live in them."
"Dutch","Fools ask what's o'clock, but wise men know their time."
"Dutch","Forced love does not last."
"Dutch","Eagles don't catch flies."
"Dutch","Even hares pull a lion by the beard when he is dead."
"Dutch","Escaping from the smoke he falls into the fire."
"Dutch","Envy crieth of spite where honour rideth."
"Dutch","Enough is better than too much."
"Dutch","Empty vessels make the most sound."
"Dutch","Economy is a great revenue."
"Dutch","Even if a monkey wears a golden ring, it is and remains an ugly thing."
"Dutch","East West, home best."
"Dutch","East, west, home's best."
"Dutch","Eagles do not breed doves."
"Dutch","With a good name one may sin easily."
"Dutch","Everything has a wherefore."
"Dutch","Eagles catch no flies."
"Dutch","Dropping a stitch."
"Dutch","Don't yoke the plough before the horses."
"Dutch","Don't throw the handle after the bill."
"Dutch","Eat bread that's light, and cheese by weight."
"Dutch","Every flood has it ebb."
"Dutch","Every little pot has a fitting lid."
"Dutch","Every shot does not bring down a bird."
"Dutch","Every man thinks his own owl a falcon."
"Dutch","Every one for himself, and God for us all."
"Dutch","Every house has its cross."
"Dutch","Every flood has its ebb."
"Dutch","Every man his own is not too much."
"Dutch","Every one must row with the oars he has."
"Dutch","Every little helps to lighten the freight, said the captain, as he threw his wife overboard."
"Dutch","Every flail on the oats."
"Dutch","Every one is a thief in his own craft."
"Dutch","Every bird sings as it is beaked."
"Dutch","Every day is not a holiday."
"Dutch","East or west, home is best."
"Dutch","Every day a thread makes a skein in the year."
"Dutch","Every one is a preacher under the gallows."
"Dutch","Every why has its wherefore."
"Dutch","Ride on, but look before you."
"Dutch","Ridicule is the test of truth."
"Dutch","Roast geese don't come flying into your mouth."
"Dutch","Roast pigeons don't fly through the air."
"Dutch","Reynard is still Reynard, though he put on a cowl."
"Dutch","Roses fall, but the thorns remain."
"Dutch","Rejoice in little, shun what is extreme; the ship rides safest in a little stream."
"Dutch","Rowing with the oars you posess."
"Dutch","Roasted pigeons will not fly into one's mouth."
"Dutch","Reward sweetens labour."
"Dutch","Reward sweetens labor."
"Dutch","Self-love is blind."
"Dutch","Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's."
"Dutch","Putting salt on every snail."
"Dutch","Put your hand in your conscience and see if it does not come out as black as pitch."
"Dutch","One should not think about it too much when marrying or taking pills."
"Dutch","Put not your trust in princes."
"Dutch","Rest makes rusty."
"Dutch","She hangs out the broom."
"Dutch","Sitting securely in the saddle."
"Dutch","Sitting down beside the boxes."
"Dutch","Silence is the answer to many things."
"Dutch","Silence answers much."
"Dutch","Sickness comes on horseback, but goes away on foot."
"Dutch","Showing off other people's feathers."
"Dutch","Show me a liar, and I'll show you a thief."
"Dutch","Short reckonings make long friends."
"Dutch","sell beets/apples as lemons."
"Dutch","Shear the sheep but don't flay them."
"Dutch","Self-love nobody else's love."
"Dutch","Shared grief is half grief."
"Dutch","Shame lasts longer than poverty."
"Dutch","Set your expense according to your trade."
"Dutch","Set thy expense according to thy trade."
"Dutch","Set hard heart against hard hap."
"Dutch","Set a thief to catch a thief."
"Dutch","Promising and performing are two things."
"Dutch","Set a beggar on horseback, and he don't trot, but gallops."
"Dutch","One sprinkles the most sugar where the tart is burned."
"Dutch","Shoemaker stick to your last."
"Dutch","Opportunity makes desire."
"Dutch","Out of the fullness of the heart the mouth speaks."
"Dutch","Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks."
"Dutch","Out of sight out of mind."
"Dutch","Out before day, in before night."
"Dutch","Our wisdom is no less at Fortune's mercy than our wealth."
"Dutch","Our time runs on like a stream; first fall the leaves and then the tree."
"Dutch","Opportunity only knocks once."
"Dutch","Proverbs are the daughters of daily experience."
"Dutch","Opportunity makes the thief."
"Dutch","Painted flowers have no odour."
"Dutch","Opportunity creates desire."
"Dutch","One's own hearth is worth gold."
"Dutch","One tale is good till another is told."
"Dutch","One take-this, is better than two thou-shalt-haves."
"Dutch","One swallow doesn't make summer."
"Dutch","One swallow does not make a summer."
"Dutch","Teachers die, but books live on."
"Dutch","Sitting with the hands in the hair."
"Dutch","Opportunity never knocks twice at any man's door."
"Dutch","Postponement is cancellation."
"Dutch","Pull gently at a weak rope."
"Dutch","Promising is one thing, performing another."
"Dutch","Promises make debts, and debts make promises."
"Dutch","Promises make debt, and debt makes promises."
"Dutch","Profit by the folly of others."
"Dutch","Proffered service stinks."
"Dutch","Proffered service is little valued."
"Dutch","Precious things are mostly in small compass."
"Dutch","Out of the fulness of the heart the mouth speaketh."
"Dutch","Poverty is the reward of idleness."
"Dutch","Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee."
"Dutch","Poor folk's wisdom goes for little."
"Dutch","Pleasures, while they flatter, sting."
"Dutch","Pleasures steal away the mind."
"Dutch","Perseverance brings success."
"Dutch","Penny wise, and pound foolish."
"Dutch","Patience surpasses learning."
"Dutch","Pastors come for your wine and officers for your daughters."
"Dutch","Put not all your eggs into one basket."
"Dutch","Precaution said, Good friend, this counsel keep: strip not yourself until you're laid to sleep."
"Dutch","That is beggar's fare, said the dame, when she fried eggs with the sausages."
"Dutch","The arms of Bruges: an ass in an arm-chair."
"Dutch","The arms of Bruges: an ass in an arm-chair."
"Dutch","The apple doesn't fall far from the tree."
"Dutch","The absent always bear the blame."
"Dutch","That's quickly done which is long repented."
"Dutch","That's all well and good, but gold is better."
"Dutch","That which burns thee not, cool not."
"Dutch","Talk of the Devil, and he is bound to appear."
"Dutch","That is good wisdom which is wisdom in the end."
"Dutch","The beadle's cow may graze in the churchyard."
"Dutch","That beer's of your own brewing, and you must drink it."
"Dutch","Tender surgeons make foul wounds."
"Dutch","Tell no one what you would have known only to yourself."
"Dutch","Tell me the company you keep, and I will tell you who you are."
"Dutch","No one so sure but he may miss."
"Dutch","Tastes differ."
"Dutch","One scabby sheep infects the whole flock."
"Dutch","Tall trees catch much wind."
"Dutch","That mouse will have a tail."
"Dutch","The better the day, the better the deed."
"Dutch","The death of one person means bread for another."
"Dutch","The cow gives good milk, but kicks over the pail."
"Dutch","The cow does not know the value of her tail till she has lost it."
"Dutch","The counterfeit image of a pot with two ears."
"Dutch","The cost is high of the honey that must be licked from thorns."
"Dutch","The clock ticks nowhere else the way it does at home."
"Dutch","The candle that goes before gives the best light."
"Dutch","The bow must not be always bent."
"Dutch","The art is not in making money, but in keeping it."
"Dutch","The blood creeps where it can't go."
"Dutch","The ass and the driver never think alike."
"Dutch","The better lawyer, the worse Christian."
"Dutch","The best pilots are ashore."
"Dutch","The best horse stumbles sometimes."
"Dutch","The best helmsmen stand on shore."
"Dutch","The best goods are the cheapest."
"Dutch","The best fodder is the mater's eye."
"Dutch","The best cause requires a good champion."
"Dutch","Talk of the devil and you hear his bones rattle."
"Dutch","The boor looks after a cent as the devil after a soul."
"Dutch","Soon fire, soon ashes."
"Dutch","Speaking is silver, being silent is gold."
"Dutch","Spare the rod, spoil the child."
"Dutch","Spare the rod and spoil the child."
"Dutch","Spare at the spigot, and let out the bunghole."
"Dutch","Sow not money on the sea, lest it sink."
"Dutch","Sorrow will pay no debts."
"Dutch","Sooner or later the truth comes to light."
"Dutch","Talk of the wolf and his tail appears."
"Dutch","Soon grass, soon hay."
"Dutch","Starved lice bite the hardest."
"Dutch","Soft and fair goeth far."
"Dutch","So got, so gone."
"Dutch","Smoke, stench, and a troublesome wife are what drive men from home."
"Dutch","Small pots have big ears/handles."
"Dutch","Small gains bring great wealth."
"Dutch","Slowly but surely, the bird builds its nest."
"Dutch","Sloth is the beginning of vice."
"Dutch","Skill and assurance make an invincible combination."
"Dutch","Soon ripe, soon rotten; soon wise, soon foolish."
"Dutch","Strew no roses before swine."
"Dutch","Take off your hat to your yesterdays; take off your coat for your tomorrows."
"Dutch","Take nothing in hand that may bring repentance."
"Dutch","Take counsel before it goes ill, lest it go worse."
"Dutch","Take a horse by his bridle and a man by his word."
"Dutch","Sweep in front of your own door before you look after your neighbor's."
"Dutch","Sweep before your own door before you look after your neighbour's."
"Dutch","Surfeits slay mae than swords."
"Dutch","Supple as a glove."
"Dutch","Speaking is silver, silence is gold."
"Dutch","Strike while the iron is hot."
"Dutch","Standing with the mouth full of teeth."
"Dutch","Stretch your legs no farther than your coverlet."
"Dutch","Strain not your bow beyond its bent, lest it break."
"Dutch","storm in a glass of water."
"Dutch","Stock-fish are made tender by much beating."
"Dutch","Still waters are deep."
"Dutch","Step by step one goes far."
"Dutch","Stay a while, and lose a mile."
"Dutch","Skill and assurance form an invincible combination."
"Dutch","Stroke your dog, and he'll spoil your clothes."
"Dutch","Love others well, but love thyself the most; give good for good, but not to thine own cost."
"Dutch","Many seek good nights and lose good days."
"Dutch","Many open a door to shut a window."
"Dutch","Many hounds mean the death of the hare."
"Dutch","Many hounds are the death of the hare."
"Dutch","Many heads, many minds."
"Dutch","Many hands make light work."
"Dutch","Man punishes the action, but God the intention."
"Dutch","Misfortunes, when asleep, are not to be awakened."
"Dutch","Making a long nose."
"Dutch","Many words go to a sackful."
"Dutch","Love makes the world go round."
"Dutch","Love makes labour light."
"Dutch","Love makes labor light."
"Dutch","Looking for nails at low tide."
"Dutch","Looking down at one's nose."
"Dutch","Look not out for dead men's shoes."
"Dutch","Look not a gift horse in the mouth."
"Dutch","Long looked for comes at last."
"Dutch","Man proposes, God disposes."
"Dutch","Men dig their graves with their teeth."
"Dutch","No sheep runs into the mouth of a sleeping wolf."
"Dutch","Misfortunes never come single."
"Dutch","Milk the cow, but don't pull off the udder."
"Dutch","Might is right."
"Dutch","Might is not right."
"Dutch","Merchant's goods are ebb and flood."
"Dutch","Men that crawl, never fall."
"Dutch","Men must sail while the wind serveth."
"Dutch","Many seek good nights and waste good days."
"Dutch","Men don't die of threats."
"Dutch","Many words don't fill the sack."
"Dutch","Men can bear all things except good days."
"Dutch","Measure twice, cut once."
"Dutch","Measure thrice before you cut once."
"Dutch","Marry in May, rue for aye."
"Dutch","Marry in haste repent at leisure."
"Dutch","Marry in haste and repent at leisure."
"Dutch","Many words will not fill a bushel."
"Dutch","Live and let live."
"Dutch","Men go not laughing to heaven."
"Dutch","Learn to creep before you run."
"Dutch","Long fasting is no bread sparing."
"Dutch","Life does not always go over roses."
"Dutch","Let me get over the lake, and I will have no fear of the brook."
"Dutch","Let me get over the lake, and I have no fear of the brook."
"Dutch","Let lie what is too heavy to lift."
"Dutch","Let it roll; it will right itself."
"Dutch","Let God's waters run over God's acres."
"Dutch","Let every one look to himself, and no one will be lost."
"Dutch","Lightly come, lightly go."
"Dutch","Learn who are your friends when you are in need."
"Dutch","Lightning never strikes the same place twice."
"Dutch","Learn thou of learned men, th' unlearned of thee; for thus must knowledge propagated be."
"Dutch","Lead for old iron."
"Dutch","Labour warms, sloth harms."
"Dutch","Knowing where Abraham gets the mustard."
"Dutch","Knowing of the hat and the brim."
"Dutch","Know what you say, but don't say all that you know."
"Dutch","Kicking in an open door."
"Dutch","Keeping the finger on the wrist."
"Dutch","Learned young is done old."
"Dutch","Little leaks sink the ship."
"Dutch","Money is power."
"Dutch","Little wood, much fruit."
"Dutch","Little things please little minds."
"Dutch","Little things attract light minds."
"Dutch","Little things are pretty."
"Dutch","Little thieves have iron chains, and great thieves gold ones."
"Dutch","Little thieves are hanged by the neck, great ones by the purse."
"Dutch","Little strokes fell great oaks."
"Dutch","Light gains make a heavy purse."
"Dutch","Little pitchers have large ears."
"Dutch","Long fasting doesn't save bread."
"Dutch","Little is done where many command."
"Dutch","Little fish are sweet."
"Dutch","Like will to like, be they poor or rich."
"Dutch","Like to like, Jack to Gill, a penny a pair."
"Dutch","Like pot, like cover."
"Dutch","Like master, like man."
"Dutch","Like a snail on a barrel of tar."
"Dutch","Like a chicken without a head."
"Dutch","Little pots soon run over."
"Dutch","Nothing so bad but it might have been worse."
"Dutch","Once a thief, always a thief."
"Dutch","On a small pretence the wolf devours the sheep."
"Dutch","Old foxes are hard to catch."
"Dutch","Old birds are not caught with cats."
"Dutch","Oil is best at the beginning, honey at the end, and wine in the middle."
"Dutch","Offer a clown your finger, and he'll take your fist."
"Dutch","Of listening children have your fears, for little pitchers have great ears."
"Dutch","Misfortunes that can't be avoided must be sweetened."
"Dutch","Nothing so bold as a blind mare."
"Dutch","Once bit, twice shy."
"Dutch","Nothing so bad but it finds its master."
"Dutch","Nothing is haste but catching flies."
"Dutch","Nothing in haste but catching fleas."
"Dutch","Not wrapping it in cloth."
"Dutch","Not wearing a high cap of someone."
"Dutch","Not turning his hand around for it."
"Dutch","Not shooting means always missing."
"Dutch","Not having all of them in a row."
"Dutch","Of hasty counsel take good heed, for haste is very rarely speed."
"Dutch","One does it for love, another for honour, a third for money."
"Dutch","One quill is better in the hand than seven geese upon the strand."
"Dutch","One penny in the pot makes more noise than when it is full."
"Dutch","One nail drives in another."
"Dutch","One must sometimes hold a candle to the devil."
"Dutch","One misfortune brings on another."
"Dutch","One lost, two found."
"Dutch","One hand washes the other, and both the face."
"Dutch","One good turn deserves another."
"Dutch","Once a whore, always a whore."
"Dutch","One fool makes many."
"Dutch","Your friend lends and your enemy asks for payment."
"Dutch","One crow does not peck out another's eyes."
"Dutch","One crow does not make a winter."
"Dutch","One cannot shoe a running horse."
"Dutch","One can't shoe a running horse."
"Dutch","One bird in the hand is better than two flying."
"Dutch","One beats the bush, and another catches the bird."
"Dutch","Once is no custom."
"Dutch","Nobility of soul is more honourable than nobility of birth."
"Dutch","One God, one wife, but many friends."
"Dutch","Much talk, little work."
"Dutch","Not being able to reach it with your hat."
"Dutch","Neither reprove nor flatter thy wife, where any one heareth or seeth it."
"Dutch","Need makes the old wife trot."
"Dutch","Necessity knows no law."
"Dutch","Necessity is the mother of invention."
"Dutch","Necessity breaks iron."
"Dutch","My shirt is nearer than my cloak."
"Dutch","My shirt is closer to me than my cloak."
"Dutch","Never wear a brown hat in Friesland."
"Dutch","Much wisdom is smothered in a poor man's head."
"Dutch","New brooms sweep clean."
"Dutch","More luck than wit."
"Dutch","More flies are taken with a drop of honey than a tun of vinegar."
"Dutch","More flies are caught with a spoonful of syrup than with a barrel full of vinegar."
"Dutch","More belongs to dancing than a pair of dancing-shoes."
"Dutch","Money rules the world."
"Dutch","Money isn't everything, but it's way ahead of whatever is in second place."
"Dutch","Money is truthful. If a man speaks of his honor, make him pay cash."
"Dutch","Money is the sinew of war."
"Dutch","Mustard after the meal."
"Dutch","No money, no Swiss."
"Dutch","One rotten apple in the basket infects the whole."
"Dutch","No wheat without chaff."
"Dutch","The desire is the father of the thought."
"Dutch","No rose without a thorn."
"Dutch","The open door invites the thief."
"Dutch","No one knows where another's shoe pinches."
"Dutch","No one is wise in his own affairs."
"Dutch","No one can have peace longer than his neighbour pleases."
"Dutch","Never was hood so holy but the devil could get his head into it."
"Dutch","No news is good news."
"Dutch","Nobody's sweetheart is ugly."
"Dutch","No man learneth but by pain or shame."
"Dutch","No man knoweth fortune till he dies."
"Dutch","No mad dog runs seven years."
"Dutch","No house without its cross."
"Dutch","No greater promisers than they who have nothing to give."
"Dutch","No cross, no crown."
"Dutch","No corn without chaff."
"Dutch","No better masters than poverty and want."
"Dutch","No office so humble but it is better than nothing."
"Dutch","When the cat's away, it is jubilee with the mice."
"Dutch","When the pig has had a bellyful it upsets the trough."
"Dutch","When the ox falls, there are many that will help to kill him."
"Dutch","When the old dog barks, he gives counsel."
"Dutch","When the mouse has had its fill, the meal turns bitter."
"Dutch","When the husband earns well, the wife spends well."
"Dutch","When the head is sick the whole body is sick."
"Dutch","When the dog is down, every one is ready to bite him."
"Dutch","When misery is highest help is nighest."
"Dutch","When the cook and the steward fall out, we hear who stole the butter."
"Dutch","When the sack is full, it pricks up its ears."
"Dutch","When the cat sleeps, the mice play."
"Dutch","When the cat is not home, the mice dance on the table."
"Dutch","When the calf is drowned they cover the well."
"Dutch","When the ass is too happy he begins dancing on the ice."
"Dutch","When prosperity smiles, beware of its guiles."
"Dutch","When one sheep is over the dam, the rest follow."
"Dutch","When one hand washes another, both become clean."
"Dutch","The old ones sing, the young ones pipe."
"Dutch","When the devil gets into the church he seats himself on the altar."
"Dutch","When thieves fall out, honest men get their goods back."
"Dutch","When we least expect it, the hare darts out of the ditch."
"Dutch","When Want comes in at the door, Love flies out at the window."
"Dutch","When two quarrel, both are to blame."
"Dutch","When two quarrel both are in the wrong."
"Dutch","When two dogs fight over a bone, a third one carries it away."
"Dutch","When two dogs fight for a bone, the third runs away with it."
"Dutch","When thy neighbour's house is on fire it's time to look about thee."
"Dutch","When things go well it is easy to advise."
"Dutch","When the pirate prays, there is great danger."
"Dutch","When thine enemy retreateth, make him a golden bridge."
"Dutch","When the pot boils over it cooleth itself."
"Dutch","When the wolf grows old the crows ride him."
"Dutch","When the wine is in the man, the wit is in the can."
"Dutch","When the wine goes in the wit goes out."
"Dutch","When the water level decreases, the ice will crack."
"Dutch","When the tree falls everyone runs to cut the branches."
"Dutch","When the stomach is full the heart is glad."
"Dutch","When the shepherd strays, the sheep stray."
"Dutch","When many shepherds tend the sheep, they but so much the longer sleep."
"Dutch","When things are at the worst they begin to mend."
"Dutch","What good serve candle and glasses, if the owl does not want to see."
"Dutch","What the farmer doesn't recognize, he doesn't eat."
"Dutch","What the eye sees not, the heart craves not."
"Dutch","What lay hidden under the snow cometh to light at last."
"Dutch","What is wrong today won't be right tomorrow."
"Dutch","What is wrong to-day won't be right to-morrow."
"Dutch","What is lost in the fire must be sought in the ashes."
"Dutch","What is long spoken of happens at last."
"Dutch","When nought comes to aught, it does not know itself."
"Dutch","What has horns will gore."
"Dutch","What the sober man thinks, the drunkard tells."
"Dutch","What costs nothing is worth nothing."
"Dutch","Were the sky to fall, not an earthen pot would be left whole."
"Dutch","Were fools silent, they would pass for wise."
"Dutch","Were everyone to sweep in front of his own house, every street would be clean."
"Dutch","Were every one to sweep before his own house, every street would be clean."
"Dutch","Well started is half won."
"Dutch","Well begun is half done."
"Dutch","We hang little thieves, and let great ones escape."
"Dutch","What is bred in the bone won't out of the flesh."
"Dutch","When every one sees that you are a pig, why don't you go into the sty?"
"Dutch","When it is God's will to plague a man, a mouse can bite him to death."
"Dutch","When industry goes out of the door, poverty comes in at the window."
"Dutch","When hard work goes out of the door, poverty comes in at the window."
"Dutch","When had comes, have is too late."
"Dutch","When God will not, the saints cannot."
"Dutch","When God pleases, it rains with every wind."
"Dutch","When God means to punish a nation, He deprives its rulers of wisdom."
"Dutch","When gnats swarm in January, the peasant becomes a beggar."
"Dutch","What the heart is full of, the mouth runs over with."
"Dutch","When flies swarm in March, sheep come to their death."
"Dutch","What the old ones sing, the young ones whistle."
"Dutch","When cats are mousing they don't mew."
"Dutch","When bale is hext, boot is next."
"Dutch","When apes climb high, they show their naked rumps."
"Dutch","When an old dog barks, look out."
"Dutch","When Adam delved and Eve span, who was then the gentleman?"
"Dutch","When a mouse has fallen into a meal sack, he thinks he is the miller himself."
"Dutch","What the soldier said isn't evidence."
"Dutch","Where the bee sucks honey the spider sucks poison."
"Dutch","When fools go to market, pedlars make money."
"Dutch","Whoso is tired of happy days, let him take a wife."
"Dutch","With a good name one may easily sin."
"Dutch","With a friend behind you, you have a safe bridge."
"Dutch","With a French sweep."
"Dutch","Wishes are the echo of a lazy will."
"Dutch","Wise rats run from a falling house."
"Dutch","Wise people can't answer the most foolish questions."
"Dutch","Wise men sue for offices, and blockheads get them."
"Dutch","Where a man feels pain he lays his hand."
"Dutch","Wisdom in the man, patience in the wife, brings peace to the house, and a happy life."
"Dutch","With honour and store, what would you more."
"Dutch","Whoso hunteth with cats will catch nothing but rats."
"Dutch","Whoever gossips about his relatives has no luck and no blessing."
"Dutch","Who writes love letters grows thin; who carries them, fat."
"Dutch","Who would regard all things complacently must wick at a great many."
"Dutch","Who weds a sot to get his cot, will lose the cot and keep the sot."
"Dutch","Who watches not catches not."
"Dutch","Who wants to beat a dog, soon finds a stick."
"Dutch","Who wants fire, let him look for it in the ashes."
"Dutch","Wisdom is a good purchase, though we pay dear for it."
"Dutch","You cannot make a silk purse from a sow's ear."
"Dutch","Keeping an eye on the sail."
"Dutch","He who pays well is master of another man's purse."
"Dutch","Young twigs may be bent, but not old trees."
"Dutch","Young fools think that the old are dotards, but the old have forgotten more than the young fools know."
"Dutch","Young folks think old folks to be fools, but old folks know young folks to be fools."
"Dutch","Young folk, silly folk; old folk, cold folk."
"Dutch","Young cats will mouse, young apes will louse."
"Dutch","You've got to stare the cat down out of the tree."
"Dutch","With a good name one may sin easily."
"Dutch","You never know how a cow catches a rabbit."
"Dutch","With hard work, you can get fire out of a stone."
"Dutch","You can't shoe a horse while it is running."
"Dutch","You can't hatch chickens from fried eggs."
"Dutch","Worldly good is ebb and flood."
"Dutch","Woods have ears and fields have eyes."
"Dutch","Women who are often at the looking-glass seldom spin."
"Dutch","With your hat in your hand you can travel the entire country."
"Dutch","With the good we become good."
"Dutch","Who undertakes too much, succeeds but little."
"Dutch","You never know what you can do till you try."
"Dutch","Whilst doing one learns."
"Dutch","Who ventures to lend, loses money and friend."
"Dutch","Who fears no shame comes to no honour."
"Dutch","Who excuses, accuses."
"Dutch","Who don't keep faith with God won't keep it with man."
"Dutch","Who doesn't keep faith with God won't keep it with men."
"Dutch","Who does well, meets goodwill."
"Dutch","Who comes first, grinds first."
"Dutch","Who chastises his child will be honoured by him, who chastises him not will be shamed."
"Dutch","Who goes fasting to bed will sleep but lightly."
"Dutch","Who buys wants a hundred eyes, who sells need have but one."
"Dutch","Who has a bad wife, his hell begins on earth."
"Dutch","While the grass grows, the steed starves."
"Dutch","Where there's no good within, no good comes out."
"Dutch","Where there's a will, there is a way."
"Dutch","Where there is nothing, the Emperor loses his right."
"Dutch","Where the hedge is lowest every one goes over."
"Dutch","Where the dike is lowest the water first runs over."
"Dutch","Where the bird was hatched it haunts."
"Dutch","Walls have ears."
"Dutch","Who can escape envy and blame, that speaks or writes for public fame?"
"Dutch","Who knows the language is at home everywhere."
"Dutch","Where poverty comes in at the door, loves flies out at the window."
"Dutch","Who undertakes many things at once seldom does anything well."
"Dutch","Who travels for love finds a thousand miles not longer than one."
"Dutch","Who to-day was a haughty knight, is to-morrow a pennyless wight."
"Dutch","Who spits against the wind, fouls his beard."
"Dutch","Who serves the public serves a fickle master."
"Dutch","Who seeds wind, shall harvest storm."
"Dutch","Who runs is followed."
"Dutch","Who gives to me, teaches me to give."
"Dutch","Who knows the tongues is at home everywhere."
"Dutch","Who undertakes too much, succeeds but little."
"Dutch","Who is tired of happy days, let him take a wife."
"Dutch","Who is righteous overmuch is a morsel for the Old One."
"Dutch","Who has plenty of pepper may pepper his beans."
"Dutch","Who has only one eye must take good care of it."
"Dutch","Who has no thirst has no business at the foundation."
"Dutch","Who has many servants has many thieves."
"Dutch","Who has deceived thee so oft as thyself?"
"Dutch","Who has but one eye must take good care of it."
"Dutch","Who reckons without his host must reckon again."
"Dutch","The purpose sanctifies the means."
"Dutch","The seeds of the day are best planted in the first hour."
"Dutch","The scabbier the sheep the harder it bleats."
"Dutch","The ruling passion strong in death."
"Dutch","The road to hell is paved with good intentions."
"Dutch","The richest man, whatever his lot, is he who is content with what he has got."
"Dutch","The richest man, whate'er his lot, is the one content with what he's got."
"Dutch","The rich man has his ice in the summer and the poor man gets his in the winter."
"Dutch","The young may die, the old must die."
"Dutch","The rich devour the poor, and the devil devours the rich and so both are devoured."
"Dutch","The third person makes good company."
"Dutch","The price of a laugh is too high, if it is raised at the expense of another."
"Dutch","The praise of fools is censure in disguise."
"Dutch","The pot upbraids the kettle that it is black."
"Dutch","The pitcher goes so long to the well that it breaks at last."
"Dutch","The pen is mightier than the sword."
"Dutch","The older one grows the more one learns."
"Dutch","The noblest vengeance is to forgive."
"Dutch","The nobler the tree, the more pliant the twig."
"Dutch","The rich have many friends."
"Dutch","The words are fair, said the wolf, but I will not come into the village."
"Dutch","Wasting is a bad habit, saving is a sure income."
"Dutch","The worth of a thing is best known by the want."
"Dutch","The worst wheel makes most noise."
"Dutch","The worse the wheel, the more it creaks."
"Dutch","The worse the carpenter, the more the chips."
"Dutch","The worse service, the better luck."
"Dutch","The world's a stage; each plays his part, and takes his share."
"Dutch","The world likes to be cheated."
"Dutch","The strength of a tree lies in its roots -- not in its branches."
"Dutch","The workman is known by his work."
"Dutch","The that creepeth falleth not."
"Dutch","The wicked shun the light as the devil does the cross."
"Dutch","The truth is lost when there is too much debating."
"Dutch","The tree is known by its fruit."
"Dutch","The tree does not fall at the first stroke."
"Dutch","The trade of thick-headed Michael: eating, drinking, and idling."
"Dutch","The thirteenth man brings death."
"Dutch","The third time pays for all."
"Dutch","The mouse that hath but one hold is soon caught."
"Dutch","The workman is worthy of his hire."
"Dutch","The eyes are bigger than the belly."
"Dutch","The nearest boor is the nearest kinsman when the calf lies in the ditch."
"Dutch","The frog will jump back into the pool, although it sits on a golden stool."
"Dutch","The friar preached against stealing when he had a pudding in his sleeve."
"Dutch","The fox never fares better than when he's bann'd."
"Dutch","The fox may lose his hair, but not his cunning."
"Dutch","The fly flutters around the candle till it gets burnt."
"Dutch","The fly flutters about the candle till at last it gets burnt."
"Dutch","The first occasion offered quickly take, lest thou repine at what thou didst forsake."
"Dutch","The fruit falls not far from the stem."
"Dutch","The farther from Rome the nearer to God."
"Dutch","The generous man enriches himself by giving; the miser hoards himself poor."
"Dutch","The eye of the master makes the horse fat, and that of the mistress the chambers neat."
"Dutch","The end of passion is the beginning of repentance."
"Dutch","The end of mirth is the beginning of sorrow."
"Dutch","The end crowns all."
"Dutch","The devil's in the cards, said Sam, four aces and not a single trump."
"Dutch","The devil take the hindmost."
"Dutch","The devil sits behind the cross."
"Dutch","The devil is not so black as he is painted."
"Dutch","The first in the boat has the choice of oars."
"Dutch","The magpie cannot leave her hopping."
"Dutch","The young ravens are beaked like the old."
"Dutch","The most noble dog can only bark."
"Dutch","The most learned are not the wisest."
"Dutch","The morning hour has gold in its mouth."
"Dutch","The more you stir a turd, the more it stinks."
"Dutch","The more servants the worse service."
"Dutch","The more haste, the less speed."
"Dutch","The monk preached against stealing, and had the good in his larder."
"Dutch","The frost hurts not weeds."
"Dutch","The master's eye and foot are the best manure for the field."
"Dutch","The nearer the bone, the sweeter the flesh."
"Dutch","The less wit a man has, the less he knows that he wants it."
"Dutch","The less said the sooner mended."
"Dutch","The innkeeper trusts his guests like he is himself."
"Dutch","The higher the mountain the lower the valley, the taller the tree the harder the fall."
"Dutch","The heart does not lie."
"Dutch","The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence."
"Dutch","The grapes are sour, said the fox, when he could not get at them."
"Dutch","The goose hisses, but does not bite."
"Dutch","The maw costs much."
"Dutch","To make an elephant out of a mosquito."
"Dutch","To-day's sorrow brings nought to-morrow."
"Dutch","To-day stately and brave, to-morrow in the grave."
"Dutch","To-day red, to-morrow dead."
"Dutch","To-day for money, to-morrow for nothing."
"Dutch","To want the last from the pot."
"Dutch","To resist with hand and tooth."
"Dutch","To put the horse behind the cart."
"Dutch","The worth of a thing Is what it will bring."
"Dutch","To marry once is a duty, twice a folly, and three times -- madness."
"Dutch","Too much of one thing is good for nothing."
"Dutch","To hit the nail on the head."
"Dutch","To hang your sickle on another man's corn."
"Dutch","To get the lid on the nose."
"Dutch","To get eggs there must be some cackling."
"Dutch","To fish behind the net."
"Dutch","To find the dog in the pot."
"Dutch","To every fool his cap."
"Dutch","To do nothing teacheth to do evil."
"Dutch","To marry one is a duty; twice a folly; thrice is madness."
"Dutch","Two cocks in one house, a cat and a mouse, an old man and young wife, are always in strife."
"Dutch","The devil has his martyrs among men."
"Dutch","Walking over corpses."
"Dutch","Wake not a sleeping dog."
"Dutch","Virtue is its own reward."
"Dutch","Virtue consists of action."
"Dutch","Virtue consists in action."
"Dutch","Using a cannon to shoot a mosquito."
"Dutch","Unlaid eggs are uncertain chickens."
"Dutch","Too err is human."
"Dutch","Two dogs seldom agree over one bone."
"Dutch","Too many cooks oversalt the porridge."
"Dutch","Truth is the daughter of time."
"Dutch","Truth is stranger than fiction."
"Dutch","Truth is lost with too much debating."
"Dutch","Trees that are frequently transplanted rarely thrive."
"Dutch","Trees often transplanted seldom prosper."
"Dutch","Travel east or travel west, a man's own house is still the best."
"Dutch","Touch a galled horse and he'll wince."
"Dutch","Time past never returns."
"Dutch","Union is strength."
"Dutch","There is no point in combing where there is no hair."
"Dutch","To do nothing teaches evil."
"Dutch","They who are often at the looking-glass seldom spin."
"Dutch","They understand one another like thieves in a fair."
"Dutch","They are two hands on one belly."
"Dutch","They are fools whose sheep run away twice."
"Dutch","They agree like cats and dogs."
"Dutch","There's no making a silk purse of a sow's ear."
"Dutch","There's no making a donkey drink against his will."
"Dutch","They who fight with golden weapons are pretty sure to prove they are right."
"Dutch","There is nothing so secret but it transpires."
"Dutch","Think before acting and whilst acting still think."
"Dutch","There is no joy without alloy."
"Dutch","There is more to dancing than a pair of dancing shoes."
"Dutch","There is a remedy for all things save death."
"Dutch","There is a loose stitch with him."
"Dutch","There is a fool at every feast."
"Dutch","There come as many calf-skins to market as ox-skins."
"Dutch","There are no better masters than poverty and wants."
"Dutch","There are more thieves than are hanged."
"Dutch","There's more to dancing than a pair of dancing shoes."
"Dutch","Thrust not thy finger in a fool's mouth."
"Dutch","Was, flax, and tin; much in and little in."
"Dutch","Time is money."
"Dutch","Time is God's and ours."
"Dutch","Time goes, death comes."
"Dutch","Time gained, much gained."
"Dutch","Time fleeth away without delay."
"Dutch","Time destroys all things."
"Dutch","Time brings roses."
"Dutch","They who come from afar have leave to lie."
"Dutch","Time and place make the thief."
"Dutch","Tis better to have loved and lost, than never to have loved at all."
"Dutch","Throwing the hat at something."
"Dutch","Three women and a goose make a market."
"Dutch","Threats don't kill."
"Dutch","Those who dislike cats will be carried to the cemetery in the rain."
"Dutch","Those that eat cherries with great persons shall have their eyes squirted out with the stones."
"Dutch","Those that dislike cats will be carried to the cemetery in the rain."
"Dutch","Thistles and thorns prick sore, but evil tongues prick even more."
"Dutch","Think before you begin."
"Dutch","Time and straw make medlars ripe."
"Dutch","Better poor on land that rich at sea."
"Dutch","Better stretch your hand than your neck."
"Dutch","Better squinting than blind."
"Dutch","Better ride a good horse for a year, than an ass all your life."
"Dutch","Better return half way than lose yourself."
"Dutch","Better reap two days too soon than one too late."
"Dutch","Better reap two days early than one day late."
"Dutch","Better reap two day too soon than one too late."
"Dutch","Better keep peace than make peace."
"Dutch","Better poor with honor than rich with shame."
"Dutch","Better twice remembered than once forgotten."
"Dutch","Better poor on land than rich at sea."
"Dutch","Better one eye-witness than ten hearsay witnesses."
"Dutch","Better one bird in the hand than ten in the sky."
"Dutch","Better once in heaven than ten times at the gate."
"Dutch","Better on the heath with an old cart that at sea in a new ship."
"Dutch","Better lose your labour than your time in idleness."
"Dutch","Better lose the anchor than the whole ship."
"Dutch","Borrowing brings care."
"Dutch","Better poor with honour than rich with shame."
"Dutch","Biding makes thriving."
"Dutch","Genius is an infinite capacity for taking pains."
"Dutch","Blossoms are not fruits."
"Dutch","Black will take no other hue."
"Dutch","Black hens lays white eggs."
"Dutch","Bite me not, my name is little grizzle; had I a little tail I should be a little lion."
"Dutch","Birds of a feather flock together."
"Dutch","Big fleas have little fleas upon their backs to bite them, and little fleas have lesser fleas, and so ad infinitum."
"Dutch","Big fish spring out of the kettle."
"Dutch","Better to be squinting than blind."
"Dutch","Big fish devour the little ones."
"Dutch","Better to lose the anchor than the whole ship."
"Dutch","Beware of the person with two faces."
"Dutch","Beware of the man of two faces."
"Dutch","Beware of an oak, it draws the stroke; avoid an ash, it counts the flash; creep under the thorn, it can save you from harm."
"Dutch","Beware of a white Spaniard and a black Englishman."
"Dutch","Between two stools you come to the ground."
"Dutch","Between two stools the breech comes to the ground."
"Dutch","Better when birds sing than where irons ring."
"Dutch","Better have a dog for your friend than your enemy."
"Dutch","Big fish eat little fish."
"Dutch","Beauty is in the eye of the beholder."
"Dutch","Beggars mounted ride their horses to death."
"Dutch","Beggars fear no rebellion."
"Dutch","Beggars can't be choosers."
"Dutch","Beggars can never be bankrupts."
"Dutch","Beggars breed and rich men feed."
"Dutch","Before you mount, look to the girth."
"Dutch","Before you make a friend, eat a pack of salt with him."
"Dutch","Better late than never."
"Dutch","Beauty is only skin deep."
"Dutch","Being able to feel it on wooden shoes."
"Dutch","Beauty is but dross it honesty be lost."
"Dutch","Bear patiently that which you suffer by your own fault."
"Dutch","Bear patiently that which thou sufferest by thine own fault."
"Dutch","Bashfulness is of no use to the needy."
"Dutch","Barren corn makes bitter bread."
"Dutch","Barnaby bright, Barnaby bright, the longest day and the shortest night."
"Dutch","Barking dogs seldom bite."
"Dutch","Barking dogs don't bite."
"Dutch","Beauty is potent, but money is omnipotent."
"Dutch","Better a good neighbour than a distant friend."
"Dutch","Better half an egg than empty shells."
"Dutch","Better belly burst than good victuals spoil."
"Dutch","Better beg than steal."
"Dutch","Better be envied than pitied."
"Dutch","Better be carried by an ass than thrown by a horse."
"Dutch","Better alone than in bad company."
"Dutch","Better afield with the birds than hanging on lords."
"Dutch","Better a slap from your friend than a kiss from your enemy."
"Dutch","Behind every mountain lies a valley."
"Dutch","Better a leg broken than the neck."
"Dutch","Behind the cross stands the devil."
"Dutch","Better a friend than money to spend."
"Dutch","Better a dog fawn on you than bite you."
"Dutch","Better a blush in the face than a spot in the heart."
"Dutch","Better a blind horse than an empty halter."
"Dutch","Better a bird in the hand than ten in the air."
"Dutch","Being someones right hand."
"Dutch","Being quiet is agreeing."
"Dutch","Break a pot, pay for a pot."
"Dutch","Better a ruined than a lost land."
"Dutch","Dogs have teeth in all countries."
"Dutch","Don't sell the bearskin before the bear is dead."
"Dutch","Don't postpone until tomorrow, what you can do today."
"Dutch","Don't overstrain your bow -- it may break."
"Dutch","Don't cry holloa! till you're out of the bush."
"Dutch","Don't cry herrings till they are in the net."
"Dutch","Don't buy a pig in a poke."
"Dutch","Don't buy a cat in a sack."
"Dutch","Dead dogs don't bite."
"Dutch","Dogs that bark at a distance bite not at hand."
"Dutch","Don't throw away your own shoes till you have got new ones."
"Dutch","Do you speak English?"
"Dutch","Do not wake sleeping dogs."
"Dutch","Deep swimmers and high climbers usually don't die in their beds."
"Dutch","Death pays all debts."
"Dutch","Death keeps no almanack."
"Dutch","Death is nature's way of telling you to slow down."
"Dutch","Death is in the pot."
"Dutch","Blow first, and sip afterwards."
"Dutch","Dominies come for your wine, and officers for your daughters."
"Dutch","From little things men go on to great."
"Dutch","Geese are plucked as long as they have any feathers."
"Dutch","Full cup, steady hand."
"Dutch","Full bottles and glasses make swearers and asses."
"Dutch","Froth is no beer."
"Dutch","From trivial things great arguments often arise."
"Dutch","From the father comes honour, from the mother comfort."
"Dutch","From the cradle to the tomb, Not all gladness, not all gloom."
"Dutch","From the boat we get to the ship."
"Dutch","Don't sell the skin till you've caught the bear."
"Dutch","From small beginning come great things."
"Dutch","Don't throw away your old shoes until you have got new ones."
"Dutch","From a spark the house is burnt."
"Dutch","Friends are like fiddle-strings; they must not be screwed too tight."
"Dutch","Friends are known in time of need."
"Dutch","Fortune lost, nothing lost; courage lost, much lost; honour lost, more lost; soul lost, all lost."
"Dutch","Fortune is round; it makes one a king, another a dunghill."
"Dutch","Fortune does not stand waiting at any one's door."
"Dutch","Fortune and glass break soon, alas."
"Dutch","Daughters may be seen but not heard."
"Dutch","From small beginnings come great things."
"Dutch","By the living we bury the dead."
"Dutch","Claw me and I'll claw thee."
"Dutch","Cent-wisdom and dollar-folly."
"Dutch","Caution is the parent of delicate beer-glasses."
"Dutch","Cats don't catch the old birds."
"Dutch","Casting the iron whilst it is hot."
"Dutch","Cast no roses before swine."
"Dutch","Carrying water to the sea."
"Dutch","Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savour."
"Dutch","Care is the mother of the porcelain cabinet."
"Dutch","Coin a phrase."
"Dutch","By slow degrees the bird builds his nest."
"Dutch","By night all cats are grey."
"Dutch","By labour fire is got out of a stone."
"Dutch","By labor fire is got out of stone."
"Dutch","By falling we learn to go safely."
"Dutch","By falling we earn to go safely."
"Dutch","Buying a cat in a bag."
"Dutch","Butter with the fish."
"Dutch","Caress your dog, and he'll spoil your clothes."
"Dutch","Counsel is irksome when the matter is past remedy."
"Dutch","Daughters are brittle ware."
"Dutch","Darkness and night are mothers of thought."
"Dutch","Cut your coat to suit your cloth."
"Dutch","Cut your coat according to your cloth."
"Dutch","Cream doesn't rise to the top, it works its way up."
"Dutch","Creaking carts last the longest."
"Dutch","Covetousness is never satisfied till its mouth is filled with earth."
"Dutch","Covetousness is always filling a bottomless vessel."
"Dutch","Clothes make the man."
"Dutch","Coupled sheep drown one another."
"Dutch","Coffee has two virtues, it's wet and it's warm."
"Dutch","Counsel is as welcome to him as a shoulder of mutton to a sick horse."
"Dutch","Counsel before action."
"Dutch","Correction bringeth fruit."
"Dutch","Comparing apples with pears."
"Dutch","Common Goods, no goods."
"Dutch","Common fame seldom lies."
"Dutch","Cold broth hot again, that loved I never; Old love renew'd again, that loved I ever."
"Dutch","Asses carry the oats and horses eat them."
"Dutch","Cover up the pot, there's an eel in it."
"Dutch","A honey tongue, a heart of gall."
"Dutch","A liar ought to have a good memory."
"Dutch","A liar must have a good memory."
"Dutch","A lean compromise is better than a fat lawsuit."
"Dutch","A kiss without a beard is like an egg without salt."
"Dutch","A hungry belly has no ears."
"Dutch","A hundred men can make an encampment, but it requires a woman to make a home."
"Dutch","A hundred bakers, a hundred millers, and a hundred tailors are three hundred thieves."
"Dutch","A good start is half the job done."
"Dutch","A horse may stumble, though he has four feet."
"Dutch","A little pot is soon hot."
"Dutch","A hog in armor is still a hog."
"Dutch","A hired horse and one's own spurs make short miles."
"Dutch","A handfull of patience is worth a bushel of brains."
"Dutch","A handful of trade, a handful of gold."
"Dutch","A handful of patience is worth more than a bushel of brains."
"Dutch","A guilty conscience needs no accuser."
"Dutch","A guest, like a fish, stinks the third day."
"Dutch","Bad egg, bad chick."
"Dutch","A house full of daughters is a cellar full of sour beer."
"Dutch","A miser's money takes the place of wisdom."
"Dutch","A ship on the beach is a lighthouse to the sea."
"Dutch","A scabby head fears the comb."
"Dutch","A sad bride makes a glad wife."
"Dutch","A runaway monk never speaks well of his convent."
"Dutch","A praying pirate is definitely a sign of danger."
"Dutch","A plough that worketh, shines; but still water stinks."
"Dutch","A plaster house, a horse at grass, a friend in words, are all mere glass."
"Dutch","A pennyworth of mirth is worth a pound of sorrow."
"Dutch","A liar should have a good memory."
"Dutch","A penny saved is better than a florin earned."
"Dutch","A little pot boils easily."
"Dutch","A merry host makes merry guests."
"Dutch","A man without money is like a ship without sails."
"Dutch","A man overboard, a mouth the less."
"Dutch","A man overboard, a mouth less to feed."
"Dutch","A man must eat, though every tree were a gallows."
"Dutch","A man in not known till he cometh to honour."
"Dutch","A little too late is much too late."
"Dutch","A good name is better than oil."
"Dutch","A penny spared is better than a florin gained."
"Dutch","'Tis well that wicked cows have short horns."
"Dutch","A cat may look at a king."
"Dutch","A burnt child dreads the fire."
"Dutch","A brilliant daughter makes a brittle wife."
"Dutch","A brilliant daughter make a brittle wife."
"Dutch","A blind man may sometimes shoot a crow."
"Dutch","A bird never flew so high but it had to come to the ground for food."
"Dutch","A beggar's hand is a bottomless basket."
"Dutch","A great book is a great evil."
"Dutch","'Twixt the spoon and the lip, the morsel may slip."
"Dutch","A cock is valiant on his own dunghill."
"Dutch","'Tis too late to spare when the cask is bare."
"Dutch","'Tis day still, while the sun shines."
"Dutch","'Tis best woo where a man can see the smoke."
"Dutch","'Tis as necessary to him as gold weights are to a beggar."
"Dutch","'Tis altogether vain to learn wisdom, and yet live foolishly."
"Dutch","'Tis a wise child that knows its own father."
"Dutch","'Tis a fat bird that bastes itself."
"Dutch","Bad company, said the thief, as he went to the gallows between the hangman and a monk."
"Dutch","A beggar's estate lies in all lands."
"Dutch","A fool by chance may say a wise thing."
"Dutch","A good horse is worth his fodder."
"Dutch","A good friend is better than silver and gold."
"Dutch","A good fire makes a quick cook."
"Dutch","A good deed is worth gold."
"Dutch","A friend's dinner is soon dressed."
"Dutch","A friend is better than money in the purse."
"Dutch","A friend at one's back is a safe bridge."
"Dutch","A fool may meet with good fortune, but the wise only profits by it."
"Dutch","A cat that meweth much catcheth but few mice."
"Dutch","A fool may chance to say a wise thing."
"Dutch","A cheeky person owns half the world."
"Dutch","A fool and his money are soon parted."
"Dutch","A flying crow always catches something."
"Dutch","A flag on a mud barge."
"Dutch","A dog with a bone knows no friends."
"Dutch","Just toss it in my hat and I'll sort it tomorrow."
"Dutch","A crown is no cure for the headache."
"Dutch","He who slanders his neighbor makes a rod for his own back."
"Dutch","A soft answer turneth away wrath."
"Dutch","A fool may give a wise man counsel."
"Dutch","An egg is an egg, said the boor, and took the goose's egg."
"Dutch","An old coachman loves the crack of the whip."
"Dutch","An indulgent mother makes a sluttish daughter."
"Dutch","An inch too short is as bad as an ell."
"Dutch","An inch too short is as bad as a yard."
"Dutch","An idle man is the devil's pillow."
"Dutch","An hour in the morning is worth two at night."
"Dutch","An honest man's word is his bond."
"Dutch","A single day grants what a whole hear denies."
"Dutch","An ennobled peasant does not know his own father."
"Dutch","An old mule with a golden bridle."
"Dutch","An ape, a priest, and a louse, are three devils in one house."
"Dutch","An ape's an ape, though he wear a gold ring."
"Dutch","All's well that ends well."
"Dutch","All women are good Lutherans -- they would rather preach than hear mass."
"Dutch","All too good is neighbours fool."
"Dutch","All too good is every man's fool."
"Dutch","All threateners don't fight."
"Dutch","All offices are greasy."
"Dutch","An envious man waxes lean with the fatness of his neighbour."
"Dutch","Anger is a short madness."
"Dutch","A daily guest is a great thief in the kitchen."
"Dutch","As you sow, you shall reap."
"Dutch","As you brew, so you shall bake."
"Dutch","As you brew so shall you bake."
"Dutch","As you began the dance you may pay the piper."
"Dutch","As the old cock crows, the young cock learns."
"Dutch","As stupid as a pig's behind."
"Dutch","As long as there's life, there is hope."
"Dutch","An old ewe dressed lamb-fashion."
"Dutch","Arms, women, and books should be looked at daily."
"Dutch","An old fox doesn't go twice into the trap."
"Dutch","An understanding person needs only half a word."
"Dutch","An ox and an ass don't yoke well to the same plough."
"Dutch","An ounce of practice is worth a pound of precept."
"Dutch","An ounce of patience is worth a pound of brains."
"Dutch","An old wolf is used to be shouted at."
"Dutch","An old rat won't go into the trap."
"Dutch","An old rat easily finds a hole."
"Dutch","All is not gold that glitters."
"Dutch","As ass does not hit himself twice against the same stone."
"Dutch","A usurer, a miller, a banker, and a publican, are the four evangelists of Lucifer."
"Dutch","All my goods are of silver and gold, even my copper kettle, says the boaster."
"Dutch","After ebb comes flood, and friends with good."
"Dutch","Advisers are not givers."
"Dutch","A young wife, new bread, and green wood devastate a house."
"Dutch","A young ewe and an old ram, every year bring forth a lamb."
"Dutch","A wreck on shore is a beacon at sea."
"Dutch","A word is enough to the wise."
"Dutch","A wolf in sheep's clothing."
"Dutch","After high floods come low ebbs."
"Dutch","A wise husband and a patient wife equal a peaceful home and a happy life."
"Dutch","After honor and state follow envy and hate."
"Dutch","A threatened man lives seven years."
"Dutch","A thief passes for a gentleman when stealing has made him rich."
"Dutch","A thief makes opportunity."
"Dutch","A stout heart tempers adversity."
"Dutch","A still tongue maketh a wise head."
"Dutch","A still tongue makes a wise head."
"Dutch","A still sow eats up all the draff."
"Dutch","Away from the eye, out of the heart."
"Dutch","A wolf hankers after sheep even at his last gasp."
"Dutch","All are not friends who smile on you."
"Dutch","A smart coat is a good letter of introduction."
"Dutch","All is fish that comes to the net."
"Dutch","All flowers are not fit for nosegays."
"Dutch","All feet tread not in one shoe."
"Dutch","All do not bite that show their teeth."
"Dutch","All cocks must have a comb."
"Dutch","All clouds do not rain."
"Dutch","All beginnings are hard, said the thief, and began by stealing an anvil."
"Dutch","After great droughts come great rains."
"Dutch","All are not princes who ride with the emperor."
"Dutch","All is well: for if the bride has not fair hair, she has a fair skin."
"Dutch","All are not cooks who wear long knives."
"Dutch","Agree, agree, for the law is costly."
"Dutch","After the storm comes a calm."
"Dutch","After the sour comes the sweet."
"Dutch","After rain comes sunshine."
"Dutch","After rain comes fair weather."
"Dutch","After meat comes mustard."
"Dutch","After honour and state follow envy and hate."
"Dutch","All are not saints that go to church."
"Dutch","How we apples swim! said the horse-turd."
"Dutch","I may go over my reckoning, but not over my time."
"Dutch","I have a mouth which I feed, it must speak what I please."
"Dutch","I am not here to catch flies."
"Dutch","Hungry flies bite sore."
"Dutch","Hunger is the best sauce."
"Dutch","Hunger gives a relish even to raw beans."
"Dutch","Hunger finds no fault with the cookery."
"Dutch","Hens like to lay where they see an egg."
"Dutch","Hunger drives the wolf out of the wood."
"Dutch","I'll sleep on it."
"Dutch","Honours change manners."
"Dutch","Honey is sweet, but the bee stings."
"Dutch","Hired horses make short miles."
"Dutch","High winds blow on high hills."
"Dutch","High trees give more shadow than fruit."
"Dutch","High trees catch lots of wind."
"Dutch","Hew not too high, lest a chip fall in thine eye."
"Dutch","He wants to learn how to shave using my beard."
"Dutch","Hunger eats through stone walls."
"Dutch","If the rope is weak, pull gently."
"Dutch","Ill-matched horses draw badly."
"Dutch","Ill weeds grow apace."
"Dutch","Ill weed grows fast."
"Dutch","Ill vessels seldom miscarry."
"Dutch","Ill tidings come soon enough."
"Dutch","Ill begun, ill done."
"Dutch","If you pull one pig by the tail all the rest squeak."
"Dutch","If you hear a lot of things, you will hear a lot of lies."
"Dutch","I wish that he would sink as deep in the ground as a hare can run in ten years."
"Dutch","If thou touchest pitch thou shalt be defiled."
"Dutch","I wot well how the world wags, He is most loved that hath most bags."
"Dutch","If one, two and three say you are an ass, put on the ears."
"Dutch","If one won't another will."
"Dutch","If he won't carry the sack, give him a whack."
"Dutch","If he waits long enough the world will be his own."
"Dutch","If fools went not to market, bad wares would not be sold."
"Dutch","If fools ate no bread, corn would be cheap."
"Dutch","Idleness is hunger's mother, and of theft it is bull brother."
"Dutch","Hens like to lay when they see an egg."
"Dutch","If you eat someone's cake, you must also eat his lentils."
"Dutch","He who has no thirst has no business at the fountain."
"Dutch","He who mixes himself with the draff will be eaten by the swine."
"Dutch","He who makes himself honey will be eaten by the bees."
"Dutch","He who laughs last, laughs best."
"Dutch","He who is surety for another, pays for him."
"Dutch","He who is outside the door has already a good part of his journey behind him."
"Dutch","He who is outside his door already has the hard part of his journey behind him."
"Dutch","He who is afraid of the leaves must not go into the wood."
"Dutch","Herring in the land, the doctor at a stand."
"Dutch","He who hunts two hares at once, catches neither."
"Dutch","He who undertakes too many things at once seldom does any of them well."
"Dutch","He who has a choice has trouble."
"Dutch","He who goes to bed with dogs will get up with fleas."
"Dutch","He who giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord."
"Dutch","He who dies not in his twenty-third year, drowns not in his twenty-fourth, and is not slain in his twenty-fifth, may boast of good days."
"Dutch","He who comes first, he who chews first."
"Dutch","He who burns his posteriors must sit on blisters."
"Dutch","He who attempts too much seldom succeeds."
"Dutch","He was born upon St. Galtpert's night, three days before luck."
"Dutch","He who hurts his nose, hurts his face."
"Dutch","He whom the shoe fits should put it on."
"Dutch","Help yourself, and God will help you."
"Dutch","Heavy purses and light hearts can sustain much."
"Dutch","Heaviness may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning."
"Dutch","Heaven protects children, sailors, and drunken men."
"Dutch","Heaven preserve me from my friends."
"Dutch","Hearsay is half lies."
"Dutch","He wriggles like an ell."
"Dutch","He would rather have a bumper in hand than a Bible."
"Dutch","He who plants fruit-trees, must not count upon the fruit."
"Dutch","He would be wise who knew all things beforehand."
"Dutch","He who throws the ball, must expect it back."
"Dutch","He who would travel through the land, must go with open purse in hand."
"Dutch","He who would gather roses, must not fear thorns."
"Dutch","He who would gather honey must brave the sting of bees."
"Dutch","He who would cheat a peasant, must take one with him."
"Dutch","He who would catch a rogue must watch behind the door."
"Dutch","He who wants a new world must first buy the old."
"Dutch","He who undertakes too much seldom succeeds."
"Dutch","In prosperity think of adversity."
"Dutch","He would bite a cent in two."
"Dutch","It is not the hen which cackles most that lays most eggs."
"Dutch","It's a long lane that has no turning."
"Dutch","It sticks to his fingers, like the charity-money to the matron."
"Dutch","It needs a cunning hand to shave a fool's head."
"Dutch","It is too late to lock the stable door when the horses have already been stolen."
"Dutch","It is too late to cry ""Hold hard!"" when the arrow has left the bow."
"Dutch","It is safest to sail within reach of the shore."
"Dutch","It is safest sailing within reach of the shore."
"Dutch","In eating 'tis good to begin, one morsel helps the other in."
"Dutch","It is pleasant to cut thongs on another man's leather."
"Dutch","It's better that the bakers are on horseback than the doctors."
"Dutch","It is not the cowl that makes the friar."
"Dutch","It is ill takin' the breeks off a highlandman."
"Dutch","It is ill sitting at Rome and striving with the Pope."
"Dutch","It is ill sailing against wind and tide."
"Dutch","It is ill catching hares with drums."
"Dutch","It is hasty speed that doesn't succeed."
"Dutch","It is hard to teach old dogs to bark."
"Dutch","It is hard to swim against the stream."
"Dutch","It is prophet-drink."
"Dutch","It's ill speaking between a full man and a fasting."
"Dutch","Gentility, sent to market, will not buy a peck of meal."
"Dutch","A cow-year, a sad year; a bull-year, a glad year."
"Dutch","It's vain to learn wisdom yet live foolishly."
"Dutch","It's the little things in life that count."
"Dutch","It's the empty can that makes the most noise."
"Dutch","It's raining pipestems."
"Dutch","It's pleasant to look on the rain, when one stands dry."
"Dutch","It's no crime to steal from a thief."
"Dutch","It's a poor heart that never rejoices."
"Dutch","It's ill waiting for dead men's shoes."
"Dutch","It's bad combing where there is no hair."
"Dutch","It's ill jesting with edged tools."
"Dutch","It's hard to catch hawks with empty hands."
"Dutch","It's good to watch the rain from a dry standpoint."
"Dutch","It's good to be off wi' the old love Before ye be on wi' the new."
"Dutch","It's good steering with wind and tide."
"Dutch","It's good feasting in another's hall."
"Dutch","It's good dancing on another man's floor."
"Dutch","It is hard to please every one."
"Dutch","It's never too late."
"Dutch","In time a mouse will gnaw through a cable."
"Dutch","It is hard to swim against the current."
"Dutch","It is a poor mouse that has but one hole."
"Dutch","It is a hard morsel that chokes."
"Dutch","It is a grief to one beggar that another stands at the door."
"Dutch","It is a bad well that you have to fill with water."
"Dutch","It is a bad well into which one must put water."
"Dutch","It hits like a grip on a pig."
"Dutch","It hangs upon a silken thread."
"Dutch","It is better to blow than burn your mouth."
"Dutch","It flows like a fountain from a broomstick."
"Dutch","It is better to ride for half a year on a good horse than to spend your entire life riding on a mule."
"Dutch","In the land of the blind, one-eye is king."
"Dutch","In the land of promise a man may die of hunger."
"Dutch","In the division of inheritance, friendship standeth still."
"Dutch","In the courtroom of the conscience, a case is always in progress."
"Dutch","In the company of the good we become good."
"Dutch","In small woods may be caught large hares."
"Dutch","In small boxes the best spice."
"Dutch","His money takes the place of wisdom."
"Dutch","It grieveth one dog that another goeth into the kitchen."
"Dutch","It is good sailing with wind and tide."
"Dutch","In prosperity caution, in adversity patience."
"Dutch","It is hard to find a pin in the dark."
"Dutch","It is hard to catch hares with unwilling hounds."
"Dutch","It is hard to blow with a full mouth."
"Dutch","It is hard for an empty bag to stand upright."
"Dutch","It is good to warm oneself by another's fire."
"Dutch","It is good to sleep in a whole skin."
"Dutch","It is good to go afoot when one is tired of riding."
"Dutch","It is bad marketing with empty pockets."
"Dutch","It is good speaking that improves good silence."
"Dutch","It is hard to steal where the host is a thief."
"Dutch","It is good rowing with the sail set."
"Dutch","It is good rowing with set sail."
"Dutch","It is good fishing in troubled waters."
"Dutch","It is easy to find a stick to beat a dog."
"Dutch","It is easy to cut thongs form other men's leather."
"Dutch","It is easy to be liberal out of another man's purse."
"Dutch","It is easier to prevent ill habits than to break them."
"Dutch","It is easier to make a lady of a peasant-girl than a peasant-girl of a lady."
"Dutch","It is good spinning from another's yarn."
"Dutch","Hares are not caught with drums."
"Dutch","He buys honey dear who has to lick it off thorns."
"Dutch","He burns the candle at both ends."
"Dutch","Having two left hands."
"Dutch","Having something on your liver."
"Dutch","Hasty speed is rarely good."
"Dutch","Hasty speed don't oft succeed."
"Dutch","Hasty questions require slow answers."
"Dutch","He is as easily caught as a hare with drums."
"Dutch","Haste and speed are rarely good."
"Dutch","He covers me with his wings, and bites me with his bill."
"Dutch","Hannibal is at the gate."
"Dutch","Handsome is as handsome does."
"Dutch","Handsome apples are sometimes sour."
"Dutch","Half an egg is better than an empty shell."
"Dutch","Half a word to the wise is enough."
"Dutch","Guessing is missing."
"Dutch","Great weights may hang on small wires."
"Dutch","Great wealth, great care."
"Dutch","Hastiness is the beginning of wrath, and its end repentance."
"Dutch","He has him under his thumb."
"Dutch","He is an essence of scoundrels."
"Dutch","He is an aristocrat in folio."
"Dutch","He is a man as a book."
"Dutch","He invites future injuries who rewards past ones."
"Dutch","He howls with the wolves, and bleats with the sheep."
"Dutch","He heed have plenty of meal who would stop every man's mouth."
"Dutch","He has the greatest blind side who thinks he has none."
"Dutch","He has the Bible on his lips, but not in his heart."
"Dutch","He cannot lay eggs, but he can cackle."
"Dutch","He has lost the nest-egg."
"Dutch","He counts his chickens before they are hatched."
"Dutch","He has a wolf-conscience."
"Dutch","He has a ton of knowledge, but the bottom is out."
"Dutch","He gapes like a clown at a fair."
"Dutch","He fell with his nose in the butter."
"Dutch","He feels like a cat in an strange warehouse."
"Dutch","He earns a farthing and has a penn'orth of thirst."
"Dutch","He did hear the sound of the bell, but doesn't know where the clapper hangs."
"Dutch","Great promisers, bad paymasters."
"Dutch","He has seen the wolf."
"Dutch","Go softly and look afar."
"Dutch","Great thieves hang little thieves."
"Dutch","Going around with the hat."
"Dutch","God sent him meat, but the devil cooked it."
"Dutch","God sells knowledge for labour, honour for risk."
"Dutch","God helps the strongest."
"Dutch","God gives birds their food, but they must fly for it."
"Dutch","God does not pay weekly, but He pays at the end."
"Dutch","God deliver us from a gentleman by day and a friar by night."
"Dutch","Good company on a journey is worth a coach."
"Dutch","God cures, and the doctor gets the money."
"Dutch","Good day to you all! said the fox, when he got into the goose-pen."
"Dutch","Give him your finger and he will seize your hand."
"Dutch","Give him an inch, he'll take an ell."
"Dutch","Give him an inch and he'll take an ell."
"Dutch","Give credit where credit is due."
"Dutch","Give at first asking what you safely can; 'tis certain gain to help an honest man."
"Dutch","Give and take is fair play."
"Dutch","Give an ass oats and he runs after thistles."
"Dutch","Gentle doctors cause smelly wounds."
"Dutch","God deliver me from a man of one book."
"Dutch","Good wine needs no bush."
"Dutch","Great cry and little wool, quoth the devil, when he sheared his hogs."
"Dutch","Great greediness to reap, helps not the money-heap."
"Dutch","Great gaps may be filled with small stones."
"Dutch","Great fools must have great bells."
"Dutch","Great fishes break the net."
"Dutch","He wants to fly before he has wings."
"Dutch","Great boast. little roast."
"Dutch","Honour once lost never returns."
"Dutch","Good company makes short miles."
"Dutch","Good wine praises itself."
"Dutch","Great talkers are little doers."
"Dutch","Good tree, good fruit."
"Dutch","Good things require time."
"Dutch","Good seed makes a good crop."
"Dutch","Good right needs good help."
"Dutch","Good looking apples are sometimes sour."
"Dutch","Good leading makes good following."
"Dutch","Good hunters track narrowly."
"Dutch","Good drink drives out bad thoughts."
"Dutch","Grass grows not upon the highway."
"Dutch","He that hears much, hears many lies."
"Dutch","He that plays at racket must watch the ball."
"Dutch","He that makes himself a sheep will be eaten by the wolf."
"Dutch","He that loves his child chastises him."
"Dutch","He that looketh on a woman to lust after her, hath committed adultery already with her in his heart."
"Dutch","He that lives with wolves, must howl with wolves."
"Dutch","He that lives with cripples learns to limp."
"Dutch","He that is embarked with the devil must sail with him."
"Dutch","He that goes a borrowing goes a sorrowing."
"Dutch","He that is at sea has not the wind in his hands."
"Dutch","He that spares something to-day will have something to-morrow."
"Dutch","He that hears much and speaks not at all Shall be welcome both in bower and hall."""
"Dutch","He that hath no honey in his pot, let him have it in his mouth."
"Dutch","He that hath many irons in the fire, some of them will cool."
"Dutch","He that hath been bitten by a serpent is afraid of a rope."
"Dutch","He that hath an ill name is half hanged."
"Dutch","He that hath a head of butter must not come near the oven."
"Dutch","He that has the luck leads the bride to church."
"Dutch","He that has a choice has trouble."
"Dutch","He that is bitten by a dog must apply some of its hair."
"Dutch","He that will have the kernel, must crack the shell."
"Dutch","He is as good a Catholic as Duke Alva's dog; who ate flesh in Lent."
"Dutch","Grass is greener in other pastures."
"Dutch","He thinks to catch shell-fish in the trees."
"Dutch","He that's long a giving, knows not how to give."
"Dutch","He that's born to be hanged will never be drowned."
"Dutch","He that would please all, and himself too, Undertakes what he cannot do."
"Dutch","He that would make a golden gate, must bring a nail to it daily."
"Dutch","He that would jest must take a jest, or else to let it alone were best."
"Dutch","He that pryeth into the clouds, may be struck with a thunderbolt."
"Dutch","He that will not be counselled cannot be helped."
"Dutch","He that saves something today will have something tomorrow."
"Dutch","He that will have no trouble in this world must not be born in it."
"Dutch","He that will have fire must bear with smoke."
"Dutch","He that will have eggs, must bear with cackling."
"Dutch","He that will conquer must fight."
"Dutch","He that will cheat at play, will cheat you any way."
"Dutch","He that well considers the world, must own he has never seen a better."
"Dutch","He that tickles himself, may laugh when he will."
"Dutch","He that goes a-borrowing, goes a-sorrowing."
"Dutch","He that would have the kernel must crack the shell."
"Dutch","He is so wise, that he goes upon the ice three days before it freezes."
"Dutch","He must gape wide who would gape against an oven."
"Dutch","He that has the devil on his neck must find him work."
"Dutch","He means well, but has a bad way of showing it."
"Dutch","He lords it like an eel in a tub."
"Dutch","He lives long who lives well."
"Dutch","He lives in the land of promise."
"Dutch","He lays his eggs beside his nest."
"Dutch","He keeps his word, as the sun keeps butter."
"Dutch","He that finds something before it is lost, will die before he is sick."
"Dutch","He is too idle to fetch his breath."
"Dutch","He must have crept out of hell while the devil was asleep."
"Dutch","He is of the race of Johnny Van Cleeve; who would always much rather have than give."
"Dutch","He is nobody's enemy but his own."
"Dutch","He is noble who performs noble deeds."
"Dutch","He is no merchant who always gains."
"Dutch","He is as welcome as the first day in Lent."
"Dutch","He is as sharp as a leaden dagger."
"Dutch","He is as poor as Job."
"Dutch","He is as good a divine as Judas was an apostle."
"Dutch","He is too stupid to be trusted alone by the fire."
"Dutch","He that can reply to an angry man is too hard for him."
"Dutch","He that despises the small is not worthy of the great."
"Dutch","He that despises the little is not worthy of the great."
"Dutch","He that complies against his will is of his own opinion still."
"Dutch","He that comes unbidden goes unthanked."
"Dutch","He waits long that waits for another main's death."
"Dutch","He measures others by his own standard."
"Dutch","He wants for ever, who would more acquire."
"Dutch","He must indeed be a good master who never does wrong."
"Dutch","He that can be patient finds his foe at his feet."
"Dutch","He that buildeth upon the highway hath many advisers."
"Dutch","He that abideth low cannot fall hard."
"Dutch","He talks like a sausage without the fat."
"Dutch","He swims on his own bullrush."
"Dutch","He studies the Bible of fifty-two leaves."
"Dutch","He said devil, but meant you."
"Dutch","He runs as fast as if he had eggs in his shoes."
"Dutch","He must shoot well who always hits the mark."
"Dutch","He must rise betimes who would please everybody."
"Dutch","He that chases another does not sit still himself."
"Dutch","Proffered service is little valued."
"Dutch","Pull gently at a weak rope."
"Dutch","The better the day, the better the deed."
"Dutch","Proverbs are the daughters of daily experience."
"Dutch","Promises make debts, and debts make promises."
"Dutch","Precaution said, Good friend, this counsel keep: strip not yourself until you're laid to sleep."
"Dutch","Proffered service stinks."
"Dutch","Precious things are mostly in small compass."
"Dutch","Pleasures, while they flatter, sting."
"Dutch","Rest makes rusty."
"Dutch","Poverty is the reward of idleness."
"Dutch","Poor folk's wisdom goes for little."
"Dutch","Profit by the folly of others."
"Dutch","Put not all your eggs into one basket."
"Dutch","Put not your trust in princes."
"Dutch","Put your hand in your conscience and see if it don't come out as black as pitch."
"Dutch","Roasted pigeons will not fly into one's mouth."
"Dutch","Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's."
"Dutch","Reward sweetens labour."
"Dutch","Reynard is still Reynard, though he put on a cowl."
"Dutch","Ridicule is the test of truth."
"Dutch","Roast geese don't come flying into your mouth."
"Dutch","Roast pigeons don't fly through the air."
"Dutch","One lost, two found."
"Dutch","Roses fall, but the thorns remain."
"Dutch","Self-love nobody else's love."
"Dutch","Self-love is blind."
"Dutch","Rejoice in little, shun what is extreme; the ship rides safest in a little stream."
"Dutch","One God, one wife, but many friends."
"Dutch","Nothing so bold as a blind man."
"Dutch","Nothing so bold as a blind mare."
"Dutch","Take counsel before it goes ill, lest it go worse."
"Dutch","Set a beggar on horseback, and he don't trot, but gallops."
"Dutch","Of hasty counsel take good heed, for haste is very rarely speed."
"Dutch","Of listening children have your fears, for little pitchers have great ears."
"Dutch","Offer a clown your finger, and he'll take your fist."
"Dutch","Oil is best at the beginning, honey at the end, and wine in the middle."
"Dutch","Old birds are not caught with cats."
"Dutch","Old foxes are hard to catch."
"Dutch","On a small pretence the wolf devours the sheep."
"Dutch","One bird in the hand is better than two flying."
"Dutch","One nail drives in another."
"Dutch","One does it for love, another for honour, a third for money."
"Dutch","Pleasures steal away the mind."
"Dutch","One must sometimes hold a candle to the devil."
"Dutch","One penny in the pot (money-box) makes more noise than when it is full."
"Dutch","One quill is better in the hand than seven geese upon the strand."
"Dutch","One rotten apple in the basket infects the whole."
"Dutch","One scabby sheep infects the whole flock."
"Dutch","One's own hearth is worth gold."
"Dutch","Opportunity makes desire."
"Dutch","Our time runs on like a stream; first fall the leaves and then the tree."
"Dutch","Out before day, in before night."
"Dutch","Painted flowers have no odour."
"Dutch","Patience surpasses learning."
"Dutch","Perseverance brings success."
"Dutch","One cannot shoe a running horse."
"Dutch","That's quickly done which is long repented."
"Dutch","Take nothing in hand that may bring repentance."
"Dutch","Take off your hat to your yesterdays; take off your coat for your tomorrows."
"Dutch","Talk of the devil and you hear his bones rattle."
"Dutch","Talk of the Devil, and he is bound to appear."
"Dutch","Talk of the wolf and his tail appears."
"Dutch","Tall trees catch much wind."
"Dutch","Tastes differ."
"Dutch","Tender surgeons make foul wounds."
"Dutch","That beer's of your own brewing, and you must drink it."
"Dutch","That is beggar's fare, said the dame, when she fried eggs with the sausages."
"Dutch","That is good wisdom which is wisdom in the end."
"Dutch","That mouse will have a tail (i.e. The thing will have a long train of consequences)."
"Dutch","Sweep before your own door before you look after your neighbour's."
"Dutch","That's all well and good, but gold is better."
"Dutch","Supple as a glove."
"Dutch","The absent always bear the blame."
"Dutch","The arms of Bruges: an ass in an arm-chair."
"Dutch","The art is not in making money, but in keeping it."
"Dutch","The ass and the driver never think alike."
"Dutch","The best cause requires a good pleader."
"Dutch","The best fodder is the mater's eye."
"Dutch","The best goods are the cheapest."
"Dutch","The best horse stumbles sometimes."
"Dutch","The best pilots are ashore."
"Dutch","The better lawyer, the worse Christian."
"Dutch","Nothing so bad but it might have been worse."
"Dutch","It's ill speaking between a full man and a fasting."
"Dutch","That which burns thee not, cool not."
"Dutch","Sorrow will pay no debts."
"Dutch","Shame lasts longer than poverty."
"Dutch","She hangs out the broom (wants a husband)."
"Dutch","Sickness comes on horseback and departs on foot."
"Dutch","Sickness comes on horseback, but goes away on foot."
"Dutch","Silence answers much."
"Dutch","Sloth is the beginning of vice."
"Dutch","Small gains bring great wealth."
"Dutch","Smoke, stench, and a troublesome wife are what drive men from home."
"Dutch","So got, so gone."
"Dutch","Soft and fair goeth far."
"Dutch","Soon fire, soon ashes."
"Dutch","Soon grass, soon hay."
"Dutch","Take a horse by his bridle and a man by his word."
"Dutch","Sooner or later the truth comes to light."
"Dutch","Surfeits slay mae than swords."
"Dutch","Spare at the spigot, and let out the bunghole."
"Dutch","Spare the rod and spoil the child."
"Dutch","Spare the rod, spoil the child."
"Dutch","Speaking is silver, silence is gold."
"Dutch","Starved lice bite the hardest."
"Dutch","Stay a while, and lose a mile."
"Dutch","Step by step one goes far."
"Dutch","Still waters are deep."
"Dutch","Stock-fish are made tender by much beating."
"Dutch","Strain not your bow beyond its bent, lest it break."
"Dutch","Stretch your legs no farther than your coverlet."
"Dutch","Strew no roses before swine."
"Dutch","Set thy expense according to thy trade."
"Dutch","Soon ripe, soon rotten; soon wise, soon foolish."
"Dutch","Labour warms, sloth harms."
"Dutch","It's bad combing where there is no hair."
"Dutch","It's better that the bakers are on horseback than the doctors."
"Dutch","It's good dancing on another man's floor."
"Dutch","It's good feasting in another's hall."
"Dutch","It's good steering with wind and tide."
"Dutch","It's good to be off wi' the old love Before ye be on wi' the new."
"Dutch","It's hard to catch hawks with empty hands."
"Dutch","It's ill jesting with edged tools."
"Dutch","They who are often at the looking-glass seldom spin."
"Dutch","It's ill waiting for dead men's shoes."
"Dutch","The boor looks after a cent as the devil after a soul."
"Dutch","It's no crime to steal from a thief."
"Dutch","Little leaks sink the ship."
"Dutch","It's the empty can that makes the most noise."
"Dutch","It sticks to his fingers, like the charity-money to the matron."
"Dutch","Learn thou of learned men, th' unlearned of thee; for thus must knowledge propagated be."
"Dutch","Learn to creep before you run."
"Dutch","Let every one look to himself, and no one will be lost."
"Dutch","Let God's waters run over God's acres."
"Dutch","Let it roll; it will right itself."
"Dutch","Let lie what is too heavy to lift."
"Dutch","Let me get over the lake, and I have no fear of the brook."
"Dutch","Light gains make a heavy purse."
"Dutch","Like pot, like cover."
"Dutch","Like to like, Jack to Gill, a penny a pair."
"Dutch","Like will to like, be they poor or rich."
"Dutch","It's never too late."
"Dutch","It's pleasant to look on the rain, when one stands dry."
"Dutch","It is hard to please every one."
"Dutch","It is easier to make a lady of a peasant-girl than a peasant-girl of a lady."
"Dutch","It is easier to prevent ill habits than to break them."
"Dutch","It is easy to be liberal out of another man's purse."
"Dutch","It is easy to cut thongs form other men's leather."
"Dutch","It is good rowing with set sail."
"Dutch","It is good sailing with wind and tide."
"Dutch","It is good speaking that improves good silence."
"Dutch","It is good spinning from another's yarn."
"Dutch","It is good to go afoot when one is tired of riding."
"Dutch","It is good to warm oneself by another's fire."
"Dutch","It is hard for an empty bag to stand upright."
"Dutch","It is hard to blow with a full mouth."
"Dutch","It's a poor heart that never rejoices."
"Dutch","It is hard to find a pin in the dark."
"Dutch","It's a long lane that has no turning."
"Dutch","It is hard to steal where the host is a thief."
"Dutch","It is hard to swim against the stream."
"Dutch","It is ill catching hares with drums."
"Dutch","It is ill sailing against wind and tide."
"Dutch","It is ill sitting at Rome and striving with the Pope."
"Dutch","It is not the cowl that makes the friar."
"Dutch","It is not the hen which cackles most that lays most eggs."
"Dutch","It is pleasant to cut thongs on another man's leather."
"Dutch","It is prophet-drink (i.e. water)."
"Dutch","It is safest sailing within reach of the shore."
"Dutch","It is too late to cry ""Hold hard!"" when the arrow has left the bow."
"Dutch","It needs a cunning hand to shave a fool's head."
"Dutch","Little pitchers have large ears."
"Dutch","It is hard to catch hares with unwilling hounds."
"Dutch","No greater promisers than they who have nothing to give."
"Dutch","Money isn't everything, but it's way ahead of whatever is in second place."
"Dutch","Money isn't everything."
"Dutch","Money rules the world."
"Dutch","More belongs to dancing than a pair of dancing-shoes."
"Dutch","More flies are taken with a drop of honey than a tun of vinegar."
"Dutch","More luck than wit."
"Dutch","Much talk little work."
"Dutch","Much wisdom is smothered in a poor man's head."
"Dutch","My shirt is nearer than my cloak."
"Dutch","Neither reprove nor flatter thy wife, where any one heareth or seeth it."
"Dutch","Never was hood so holy but the devil could get his head into it."
"Dutch","No better masters than poverty and want."
"Dutch","Little is done where many command."
"Dutch","No cross, no crown."
"Dutch","Money is power."
"Dutch","No house without its cross."
"Dutch","No mad dog runs seven years."
"Dutch","No man knoweth fortune till he dies."
"Dutch","No man learneth but by pain or shame."
"Dutch","No office so humble but it is better than nothing."
"Dutch","No one can have peace longer than his neighbour pleases."
"Dutch","No one is wise in his own affairs."
"Dutch","No one knows where another's shoe pinches."
"Dutch","No one so sure but he may miss."
"Dutch","No sheep runs into the mouth of a sleeping wolf."
"Dutch","Nobility of soul is more honourable than nobility of birth."
"Dutch","Nobody's sweetheart is ugly."
"Dutch","No corn without chaff."
"Dutch","Many words don't fill the sack."
"Dutch","Little strokes fell great oaks."
"Dutch","Little thieves have iron chains, and great thieves gold ones."
"Dutch","Little things are pretty."
"Dutch","Little things attract light minds."
"Dutch","Little things please little minds."
"Dutch","Little wood, much fruit."
"Dutch","Long fasting is no bread sparing."
"Dutch","Long looked for comes at last."
"Dutch","Love makes labour light."
"Dutch","Love others well, but love thyself the most; give good for good, but not to thine own cost."
"Dutch","Many heads, many minds."
"Dutch","Many open a door to shut a window."
"Dutch","Money is truthful. If a man speaks of his honor, make him pay cash."
"Dutch","It is better to ride for half a year on a good horse than to spend your entire life riding on a mule."
"Dutch","Money is the sinew of war."
"Dutch","Many words go to a sackful."
"Dutch","Measure thrice before you cut once."
"Dutch","Measure twice, cut once."
"Dutch","Men can bear all things except good days."
"Dutch","Men dig their graves with their teeth."
"Dutch","Men don't die of threats."
"Dutch","Men go not laughing to heaven."
"Dutch","Men must sail while the wind serveth."
"Dutch","Merchant's goods are ebb and flood."
"Dutch","Might is not right."
"Dutch","Might is right."
"Dutch","Milk the cow, but don't pull off the udder."
"Dutch","Nothing is haste but catching flies."
"Dutch","Many seek good nights and lose good days."
"Dutch","When the pot boils over it cooleth itself."
"Dutch","They are fools whose sheep run away twice."
"Dutch","When prosperity smiles, beware of its guiles."
"Dutch","When the ass is too happy he begins dancing on the ice."
"Dutch","When the calf is drowned they cover the well."
"Dutch","When the cat sleeps, the mice play."
"Dutch","When the cat's away, it is jubilee with the mice."
"Dutch","When the cook and the steward fall out we hear who stole the butter."
"Dutch","When the devil gets into the church he seats himself on the altar."
"Dutch","When the dog is down, every one is ready to bite him."
"Dutch","When the head is sick the whole body is sick."
"Dutch","When the husband earns well the wife spins well."
"Dutch","When the mouse has had its fill, the meal turns bitter."
"Dutch","When nought comes to aught, it does not know itself."
"Dutch","When the pirate prays, there is great danger."
"Dutch","When misery is highest help is nighest."
"Dutch","When the shepherd strays, the sheep stray."
"Dutch","When the stomach is full the heart is glad."
"Dutch","When the tree falls every one runs to cut boughs."
"Dutch","When the wine goes in the wit goes out."
"Dutch","When the wine is in the man, the wit is in the can."
"Dutch","When the wolf grows old the crows ride him."
"Dutch","When thieves fall out, honest men come to their goods."
"Dutch","When things are at the worst they begin to mend."
"Dutch","When things go well it is easy to advise."
"Dutch","When thy neighbour's house is on fire it's time to look about thee."
"Dutch","When two dogs fight for a bone, the third runs away with it."
"Dutch","When two quarrel both are in the wrong."
"Dutch","When the pig has had a bellyful it upsets the trough."
"Dutch","What lay hidden under the snow cometh to light at last."
"Dutch","Two dogs seldom agree over one bone."
"Dutch","Union is strength."
"Dutch","Virtue consists in action."
"Dutch","Was, flax, and tin; much in and little in."
"Dutch","We hang little thieves, and let great ones escape."
"Dutch","Were every one to sweep before his own house, every street would be clean."
"Dutch","Were fools silent they would pass for wise."
"Dutch","Were the sky to fall, not an earthen pot would be left whole."
"Dutch","What costs nothing is worth nothing."
"Dutch","What has horns will gore."
"Dutch","What is bred in the bone won't out of the flesh."
"Dutch","What is long spoken of happens at last."
"Dutch","When one sheep is over the dam, the rest follow."
"Dutch","What is wrong to-day won't be right to-morrow."
"Dutch","When we least expect it, the hare darts out of the ditch."
"Dutch","When a mouse has fallen into a meal sack, he thinks he is the miller himself."
"Dutch","When Adam delved and Eve span, who was then the gentleman?"
"Dutch","When apes climb high, they show their naked rumps."
"Dutch","When bale is hext, boot is next."
"Dutch","When cats are mousing they don't mew."
"Dutch","When every one sees that you are a pig, why don't you go into the sty?"
"Dutch","When flies swarm in March, sheep come to their death."
"Dutch","When fools go to market, pedlars make money."
"Dutch","When gnats swarm in January, the peasant becomes a beggar."
"Dutch","When had comes, have is too late."
"Dutch","When industry goes out of the door, poverty comes in at the window."
"Dutch","When it is God's will to plague a man, a mouse can bite him to death."
"Dutch","What is lost in the fire must be sought in the ashes."
"Dutch","With the good we become good."
"Dutch","Who ventures to lend, loses money and friend."
"Dutch","Who wants fire, let him look for it in the ashes."
"Dutch","Who wants to beat a dog, soon finds a stick."
"Dutch","Who watches not catches not."
"Dutch","Who weds a sot to get his cot, will lose the cot and keep the sot."
"Dutch","Who would regard all things complacently must wick at a great many."
"Dutch","Whoso hunteth with cats will catch nothing but rats."
"Dutch","Whoso is tired of happy days, let him take a wife."
"Dutch","Wisdom in the man, patience in the wife, brings peace to the house, and a happy life."
"Dutch","Wisdom is a good purchase, though we pay dear for it."
"Dutch","Wise men sue for offices, and blockheads get them."
"Dutch","Wishes are the echo of a lazy will."
"Dutch","When two quarrel, both are to blame."
"Dutch","With honour and store, what would you more."
"Dutch","Who travels for love finds a thousand miles not longer than one."
"Dutch","Woods have ears and fields have eyes."
"Dutch","Worldly good is ebb and flood."
"Dutch","You never know how a cow catches a rabbit."
"Dutch","You never know what you can do till you try."
"Dutch","You've got to stare the cat down out of the tree."
"Dutch","Young cats will mouse, young apes will louse."
"Dutch","Young folk, silly folk; old folk, cold folk."
"Dutch","Young folks think old folks to be fools, but old folks know young folks to be fools."
"Dutch","Young fools think that the old are dotards, but the old have forgotten more than the young fools know."
"Dutch","Young twigs may be bent, but not old trees."
"Dutch","Your friend lends and your enemy asks payment."
"Dutch","He that would make a golden gate, must bring a nail to it daily."
"Dutch","With a good name one may easily sin."
"Dutch","Who goes fasting to bed will sleep but lightly."
"Dutch","Truth is stranger than fiction."
"Dutch","Where a man feels pain he lays his hand."
"Dutch","Where poverty comes in at the door, loves flies out at the window."
"Dutch","Where the bird was hatched it haunts."
"Dutch","Where the dike (or dam) is lowest the water first runs over."
"Dutch","Where the hedge is lowest every one goes over."
"Dutch","Where there's no good within, no good comes out."
"Dutch","Who buys wants a hundred eyes, who sells need have but one."
"Dutch","Who can escape envy and blame, that speaks or writes for public fame?"
"Dutch","Who chastises his child will be honoured by him, who chastises him not will be shamed."
"Dutch","Who don't keep faith with God won't keep it with man."
"Dutch","Who excuses, accuses."
"Dutch","Who undertakes too much, succeeds but little."
"Dutch","Who gives to me, teaches me to give."
"Dutch","Who undertakes many things at once seldom does anything well."
"Dutch","Who has a bad wife, his hell begins on earth."
"Dutch","Who has but one eye must take good care of it."
"Dutch","Who has many servants has many thieves."
"Dutch","Who has no thirst has no business at the foundation."
"Dutch","Who has plenty of pepper may pepper his beans."
"Dutch","Who is righteous overmuch is a morsel for the Old One."
"Dutch","Who knows the tongues is at home everywhere."
"Dutch","Who reckons without his host must reckon again."
"Dutch","Who runs is followed."
"Dutch","Who serves the public serves a fickle master."
"Dutch","Who spits against the wind, fouls his beard."
"Dutch","Who to-day was a haughty knight, is to-morrow a pennyless wight."
"Dutch","When Want comes in at the door, Love flies out at the window."
"Dutch","Who fears no shame comes to no honour."
"Dutch","The price of a laugh is too high, if it is raised at the expense of another."
"Dutch","The more servants the worse service."
"Dutch","The more you stir a turd, the more it stinks."
"Dutch","The most learned are not the wisest."
"Dutch","The most noble dog can only bark."
"Dutch","The mouse that hath but one hold is soon caught."
"Dutch","The nearest boor is the nearest kinsman when the calf lies in the ditch."
"Dutch","The nobler the tree, the more pliant the twig."
"Dutch","The noblest vengeance is to forgive."
"Dutch","The old ones sing, the young ones pipe."
"Dutch","The older one grows the more one learns."
"Dutch","The open door invites the thief."
"Dutch","The pitcher goes so long to the well that it breaks at last."
"Dutch","The words are fair, said the wolf, but I will not come into the village."
"Dutch","The praise of fools is censure in disguise."
"Dutch","The master's eye and foot are the best manure for the field."
"Dutch","The rich devour the poor, and the devil devours the rich and so both are devoured."
"Dutch","The rich have many friends."
"Dutch","The rich man has his ice in the summer and the poor man gets his in the winter."
"Dutch","The richest man, whatever his lot, is he who's content with what he has got."
"Dutch","The ruling passion strong in death."
"Dutch","The scabbier the sheep the harder it bleats."
"Dutch","The that creepeth falleth not."
"Dutch","The third person makes good company."
"Dutch","The third time pays for all."
"Dutch","The thirteenth man brings death."
"Dutch","The trade of thick-headed Michael: eating, drinking, and idling."
"Dutch","Two cocks in one house, a cat and a mouse, an old man and young wife, are always in strife."
"Dutch","The pot upbraids the kettle that it is black."
"Dutch","The fly flutters about the candle till at last it gets burnt."
"Dutch","The candle that goes before gives the best light."
"Dutch","The counterfeit image of a pot with two ears."
"Dutch","The devil has his martyrs among men."
"Dutch","The devil sits behind the cross."
"Dutch","The devil take the hindmost."
"Dutch","The devil's in the cards, said Sam, four aces and not a single trump."
"Dutch","The end crowns all."
"Dutch","The end of mirth is the beginning of sorrow."
"Dutch","The end of passion is the beginning of repentance."
"Dutch","The eye of the master makes the horse fat, and that of the mistress the chambers neat."
"Dutch","The eyes are bigger than the belly."
"Dutch","The farther from Rome the nearer to God."
"Dutch","The monk preached against stealing, and had the good in his larder."
"Dutch","The first occasion offered quickly take, lest thou repine at what thou didst forsake."
"Dutch","The maw costs much."
"Dutch","The fox may lose his hair, but not his cunning."
"Dutch","The fox never fares better than when he's bann'd."
"Dutch","The friar preached against stealing when he had a pudding in his sleeve."
"Dutch","The frog will jump back into the pool, although it sits on a golden stool."
"Dutch","The frost hurts not weeds."
"Dutch","The fruit falls not far from the stem."
"Dutch","The generous man enriches himself by giving; the miser hoards himself poor."
"Dutch","The goose hisses, but does not bite."
"Dutch","The heart does not lie."
"Dutch","The higher the mountain the lower the vale, the taller the tree the harder the fall."
"Dutch","The less said the sooner mended."
"Dutch","The less wit a man has, the less he knows that he wants it."
"Dutch","The workman is worthy of his hire."
"Dutch","The first in the boat has the choice of oars."
"Dutch","To get eggs there must be some cackling."
"Dutch","Time goes, death comes."
"Dutch","Time is God's and ours."
"Dutch","Time is money."
"Dutch","Time past never returns."
"Dutch","'Tis a fat bird that bastes itself."
"Dutch","'Tis a wise child that knows its own father."
"Dutch","'Tis altogether vain to learn wisdom, and yet live foolishly."
"Dutch","'Tis as necessary to him as gold weights are to a beggar."
"Dutch","'Tis better to have loved and lost, than never to have loved at all."
"Dutch","'Tis day still, while the sun shines."
"Dutch","'Tis too late to spare when the cask is bare."
"Dutch","'Tis well that wicked cows have short horns."
"Dutch","The wicked shun the light as the devil does the cross."
"Dutch","To every fool his cap."
"Dutch","Time destroys all things."
"Dutch","To hang your sickle on another man's corn."
"Dutch","To marry one is a duty; twice a folly; thrice is madness."
"Dutch","To-day stately and brave, to-morrow in the grave."
"Dutch","To-day's sorrow brings nought to-morrow."
"Dutch","Too err is human."
"Dutch","Too many cooks oversalt the porridge."
"Dutch","Too much of one thing is good for nothing."
"Dutch","Touch a galled horse and he'll wince."
"Dutch","Travel east or travel west, a man's own house is still the best."
"Dutch","Trees often transplanted seldom prosper."
"Dutch","Truth is lost with too much debating."
"Dutch","The bow must not be always bent."
"Dutch","To do nothing teacheth to do evil."
"Dutch","There is nothing so secret but it transpires."
"Dutch","The world likes to be cheated."
"Dutch","The world's a stage; each plays his part, and takes his share."
"Dutch","The worse service, the better luck."
"Dutch","The worse the carpenter the more the chips."
"Dutch","The worse the wheel, the more it creaks."
"Dutch","The worst wheel makes most noise."
"Dutch","The worth of a thing Is what it will bring."
"Dutch","The worth of a thing is best known by the want."
"Dutch","The young ravens are beaked like the old."
"Dutch","There are more thieves than are hanged."
"Dutch","There come as many calf-skins to market as ox-skins."
"Dutch","There is a fool at every feast."
"Dutch","Time gained, much gained."
"Dutch","There is no joy without alloy."
"Dutch","Time fleeth away without delay."
"Dutch","There's no making a donkey drink against his will."
"Dutch","They agree like cats and dogs."
"Dutch","They understand one another like thieves in a fair."
"Dutch","They who come from afar have leave to lie."
"Dutch","They who fight with golden weapons are pretty sure to prove their right."
"Dutch","Thistles and thorns prick sore, but evil tongues prick more."
"Dutch","Those that dislike cats will be carried to the cemetery in the rain."
"Dutch","Those that eat cherries with great persons shall have their eyes squirted out with the stones."
"Dutch","Those who dislike cats will be carried to the cemetery in the rain."
"Dutch","Threats don't kill."
"Dutch","Thrust not thy finger in a fool's mouth."
"Dutch","Time and straw make medlars ripe."
"Dutch","'Twixt the spoon and the lip, the morsel may slip."
"Dutch","There is a remedy for all things save death."
"Dutch","Black hens lays white eggs."
"Dutch","Beauty is potent, but money is omnipotent."
"Dutch","Better squinting than blind."
"Dutch","Better stretch your hand than your neck."
"Dutch","Better twice remembered than once forgotten."
"Dutch","Better when birds sing than where irons ring."
"Dutch","Beware of a white Spaniard and a black Englishman."
"Dutch","Beware of an oak, it draws the stroke; avoid an ash, it counts the flash; creep under the thorn, it can save you from harm."
"Dutch","Biding makes thriving."
"Dutch","Big fish devour the little ones."
"Dutch","Big fish eat little fish."
"Dutch","Big fish spring out of the kettle."
"Dutch","Big fleas have little fleas upon their backs to bite them, and little fleas have lesser fleas, and so ad infinitum."
"Dutch","Better return half way than lose yourself."
"Dutch","Bite me not, my name is little grizzle; had I a little tail I should be a little lion."
"Dutch","Better reap two days early than one day late."
"Dutch","Black will take no other hue."
"Dutch","Blossoms are not fruits."
"Dutch","Blow first, and sip afterwards."
"Dutch","Borrowing brings care."
"Dutch","By falling we earn to go safely."
"Dutch","By falling we learn to go safely."
"Dutch","By labour fire is got out of a stone."
"Dutch","By slow degrees the bird builds his nest."
"Dutch","By the living we bury the dead."
"Dutch","Caress your dog, and he'll spoil your clothes."
"Dutch","Caution is the parent of delicate beer-glasses."
"Dutch","Cent-wisdom and dollar-folly."
"Dutch","Bird never flew so high but it had to come to the ground for food."
"Dutch","Better afield with the birds than hanging on lords."
"Dutch","Far fetched and dear bought is meat for ladies."
"Dutch","Before you mount, look to the girth."
"Dutch","Beggars breed and rich men feed."
"Dutch","Beggars can never be bankrupts."
"Dutch","Beggars can't be choosers."
"Dutch","Beggars fear no rebellion."
"Dutch","Beggars mounted ride their horses to death."
"Dutch","Behind every mountain lies a vale."
"Dutch","Behind the cross stands the devil."
"Dutch","Better a bird in the hand than ten in the air."
"Dutch","Better a blind horse than an empty halter."
"Dutch","Better a blush in the face than a spot in the heart."
"Dutch","Better ride a good horse for a year, than an ass all your life."
"Dutch","Better a leg broken than the neck."
"Dutch","Coin a phrase."
"Dutch","Better be carried by an ass than thrown by a horse."
"Dutch","Better beg than steal."
"Dutch","Better belly burst than good victuals spoil."
"Dutch","Better have a dog for your friend than your enemy."
"Dutch","Better keep peace than make peace."
"Dutch","Better lose your labour than your time in idleness."
"Dutch","Better on the heath with an old cart that at sea in a new ship."
"Dutch","Better once in heaven than ten times at the gate."
"Dutch","Better one eye-witness than ten hearsay witnesses."
"Dutch","Better poor on land that rich at sea."
"Dutch","Better poor with honour than rich with shame."
"Dutch","Better reap two day too soon than one too late."
"Dutch","Better a friend than money to spend."
"Dutch","Every man his own is not too much."
"Dutch","Don't throw the handle after the bill."
"Dutch","Don't yoke the plough before the horses."
"Dutch","Eagles catch no flies."
"Dutch","Eat bread that's light, and cheese by weight."
"Dutch","Empty vessels make the most sound."
"Dutch","Envy crieth of spite where honour rideth."
"Dutch","Escaping from the smoke he falls into the fire."
"Dutch","Even hares pull a lion by the beard when he is dead."
"Dutch","Every bird sings as it is beaked."
"Dutch","Every day a thread makes a skein in the year."
"Dutch","Every flood has it ebb."
"Dutch","Every house has its cross."
"Dutch","Clothes make the man."
"Dutch","Every little helps."
"Dutch","Don't sell the bearskin before the bear is dead."
"Dutch","Every man is master in his own house."
"Dutch","Every man thinks his own owl a falcon."
"Dutch","Every one is a preacher under the gallows."
"Dutch","Every one is a thief in his own craft."
"Dutch","Every one must row with the oars he has."
"Dutch","Every why has its wherefore."
"Dutch","Everything has a wherefore."
"Dutch","Everything has an end except God."
"Dutch","Everything has two handles (or two sides)."
"Dutch","Evil words corrupt good manners."
"Dutch","Fair money can cover mush that's foul."
"Dutch","Fair play's a jewel."
"Dutch","Every little helps to lighten the freight, said the captain, as he threw his wife overboard."
"Dutch","Daughters may be seen but not heard."
"Dutch","Beauty is only skin deep."
"Dutch","Cold broth hot again, that loved I never; Old love renew'd again, that loved I ever."
"Dutch","Common Goods, no goods."
"Dutch","Correction bringeth fruit."
"Dutch","Counsel before action."
"Dutch","Counsel is as welcome to him as a shoulder of mutton to a sick horse."
"Dutch","Counsel is irksome when the matter is past remedy."
"Dutch","Coupled sheep drown one another."
"Dutch","Cover up the pot, there's an eel in it."
"Dutch","Covetousness is never satisfied till its mouth is filled with earth."
"Dutch","Creaking carts last the longest."
"Dutch","Cream doesn't rise to the top, it works its way up."
"Dutch","Don't throw away your own shoes till you have got new ones."
"Dutch","Daughters are brittle ware."
"Dutch","Don't sell the skin till you've caught the bear."
"Dutch","Death is in the pot."
"Dutch","Death is nature's way of telling you to slow down."
"Dutch","Death keeps no almanack."
"Dutch","Death pays all debts."
"Dutch","Deep swimmers and high climbers seldom die in their beds."
"Dutch","Do you speak English? (Meaning, Have you got any money?)"
"Dutch","Dogs have teeth in all countries."
"Dutch","Dogs that bark at a distance bite not at hand."
"Dutch","Dominies come for your wine, and officers for your daughters."
"Dutch","Don't buy a pig in a poke."
"Dutch","Don't cry herrings till they are in the net."
"Dutch","Don't cry holloa! till you're over the bridge."
"Dutch","Coffee has two virtues, it is wet and warm."
"Dutch","Darkness and night are mothers of thought."
"Dutch","A plaster house, a horse at grass, a friend in words, are all mere glass."
"Dutch","Before you make a friend eat a peck of salt with him."
"Dutch","A hundred men can make an encampment, but it requires a woman to make a home."
"Dutch","A kiss without a beard is like an egg without salt."
"Dutch","A liar must have a good memory."
"Dutch","A liar ought to have a good memory."
"Dutch","A liar should have a good memory."
"Dutch","A little pot is soon hot."
"Dutch","A man in not known till he cometh to honour."
"Dutch","A man must eat, though every tree were a gallows."
"Dutch","A man overboard, a mouth the less."
"Dutch","A man without money is like a ship without sails."
"Dutch","A merry host makes merry guests."
"Dutch","A house full of daughters is a cellar full of sour beer."
"Dutch","A pennyworth of mirth is worth a pound of sorrow."
"Dutch","A horse may stumble, though he has four feet."
"Dutch","A plough that worketh, shines; but still water stinks."
"Dutch","A runaway monk never speaks well of his convent."
"Dutch","A sad bride makes a glad wife."
"Dutch","A scabby head fears the comb."
"Dutch","A ship on the beach is a lighthouse to the sea."
"Dutch","A single day grants what a whole hear denies."
"Dutch","A smart coat is a good letter of introduction."
"Dutch","A still sow eats up all the draff."
"Dutch","A still tongue makes a wise head."
"Dutch","A still tongue maketh a wise head."
"Dutch","A stout heart tempers adversity."
"Dutch","A thief makes opportunity."
"Dutch","A penny spared is better than a florin gained."
"Dutch","A friend at one's back is a safe bridge."
"Dutch","It is better to blow than burn your mouth."
"Dutch","A beggar's estate lies in all lands."
"Dutch","A beggar's hand is a bottomless basket."
"Dutch","A blind man may sometimes shoot a crow."
"Dutch","A brilliant daughter make a brittle wife."
"Dutch","A cat that meweth much catcheth but few mice."
"Dutch","A cock is valiant on his own dunghill."
"Dutch","A cow-year, a sad year; a bull-year, a glad year."
"Dutch","A daily guest is a great thief in the kitchen."
"Dutch","A dog with a bone knows no friends."
"Dutch","A flying crow always catches something."
"Dutch","A fool may chance to say a wise thing."
"Dutch","A hundred bakers, a hundred millers, and a hundred tailors are three hundred thieves."
"Dutch","A fool may meet with good fortune, but the wise only profits by it."
"Dutch","A usurer, a miller, a banker, and a publican, are the four evangelists of Lucifer."
"Dutch","A friend is better than money in the purse."
"Dutch","A friend's dinner is soon dressed."
"Dutch","A good fire makes a quick cook."
"Dutch","A good friend is better than silver and gold."
"Dutch","A good horse is worth his fodder."
"Dutch","A good name is better than oil (i.e. riches)."
"Dutch","A great book is a great evil."
"Dutch","A guest, like a fish, stinks the third day."
"Dutch","A guilty conscience needs no accuser."
"Dutch","A handful of patience is worth more than a bushel of brains."
"Dutch","A handful of trade, a handful of gold."
"Dutch","A handfull of patience is worth a bushel of brains."
"Dutch","A fool may give a wise man counsel."
"Dutch","An ounce of practice is worth a pound of precept."
"Dutch","An egg is an egg, said the boor, and took the goose's egg."
"Dutch","An ennobled peasant does not know his own father."
"Dutch","An envious man waxes lean with the fatness of his neighbour."
"Dutch","An honest man's word is his bond."
"Dutch","An hour in the morning is worth two at night."
"Dutch","An idle man is the devil's pillow."
"Dutch","An inch too short is as bad as an ell."
"Dutch","An indulgent mother makes a sluttish daughter."
"Dutch","An old ewe dressed lamb-fashion."
"Dutch","An old fox doesn't go twice into the trap."
"Dutch","An old mule with a golden bridle."
"Dutch","An old rat easily finds a hole."
"Dutch","A thief passes for a gentleman when stealing has made him rich."
"Dutch","An old wolf is used to be shouted at."
"Dutch","All too good is every man's fool."
"Dutch","Anger is a short madness."
"Dutch","Arms, women, and books should be looked at daily."
"Dutch","As you began the dance you may pay the piper."
"Dutch","As you brew so shall you bake."
"Dutch","As you brew, so you shall bake."
"Dutch","Asses carry the oats and horses eat them."
"Dutch","Bad company, said the thief, as he went to the gallows between the hangman and a monk."
"Dutch","Bad egg, bad chick."
"Dutch","Bashfulness is of no use to the needy."
"Dutch","Bear patiently that which thou sufferest by thine own fault."
"Dutch","Beauty is but dross it honesty be lost."
"Dutch","Beauty is in the eye of the beholder."
"Dutch","An old rat won't go into the trap."
"Dutch","All are not friends who smile on you."
"Dutch","An ox and an ass don't yoke well to the same plough."
"Dutch","A wolf in sheep's clothing."
"Dutch","A wreck on shore is a beacon at sea."
"Dutch","A young ewe and an old ram, every year bring forth a lamb."
"Dutch","Advisers are not givers."
"Dutch","After ebb comes flood, and friends with good."
"Dutch","After great droughts come great rains."
"Dutch","After high floods come low ebbs."
"Dutch","After honour and state follow envy and hate."
"Dutch","After rain comes fair weather."
"Dutch","After the sour comes the sweet."
"Dutch","After the storm comes a calm."
"Dutch","An ape, a priest, and a louse, are three devils in one house."
"Dutch","All are not cooks who wear long knives."
"Dutch","An ape's an ape, though he wear a gold ring."
"Dutch","All are not princes who ride with the emperor."
"Dutch","All are not saints that go to church."
"Dutch","All beginnings are hard, said the thief, and began by stealing an anvil."
"Dutch","All clouds do not rain."
"Dutch","All cocks must have a comb."
"Dutch","All do not bite that show their teeth."
"Dutch","All feet tread not in one shoe."
"Dutch","All flowers are not fit for nosegays."
"Dutch","All is fish that comes to the net."
"Dutch","All is well: for if the bride has not fair hair, she has a fair skin."
"Dutch","All offices are greasy (i.e. open to receive what the Dutch call smear-money, a term derived from the fee paid for greasing wheels)."
"Dutch","All threateners don't fight."
"Dutch","A threatened man lives seven years."
"Dutch","Agree, agree, for the law is costly."
"Dutch","He waits long that waits for another main's death."
"Dutch","He that abideth low cannot fall hard."
"Dutch","He that well considers the world, must own he has never seen a better."
"Dutch","He that will cheat at play, will cheat you any way."
"Dutch","He that will conquer must fight."
"Dutch","He that will have eggs, must bear with cackling."
"Dutch","He that will have fire must bear with smoke."
"Dutch","He that will have no trouble in this world must not be born in it."
"Dutch","He that will have the kernel, must crack the shell."
"Dutch","He that will not be counselled cannot be helped."
"Dutch","He that would have the kernel must crack the shell."
"Dutch","He that would jest must take a jest, else to let it along were best."
"Dutch","He that's long a giving, knows not how to give."
"Dutch","He that spares something to-day will have something to-morrow."
"Dutch","He thinks to catch shell-fish in the trees."
"Dutch","He that pryeth into the clouds, may be struck with a thunderbolt."
"Dutch","He wants for ever, who would more acquire."
"Dutch","He wants to fly before he has wings."
"Dutch","He wants to learn how to shave using my beard."
"Dutch","He was born upon St. Galtpert's night, three days before luck."
"Dutch","He who burns his posteriors must sit on blisters."
"Dutch","He who dies not in his twenty-third year, drowns not in his twenty-fourth, and is not slain in his twenty-fifth, may boast of good days."
"Dutch","He who giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord."
"Dutch","He who goes to bed with dogs will get up with fleas."
"Dutch","He who hunts two hares at once, catches neither."
"Dutch","He who is afraid of leaves must not go into the wood."
"Dutch","He who is outside his door already has a hard part of his journey behind him."
"Dutch","He who is surety for another, pays for him."
"Dutch","He that's born to be hanged will never be drowned."
"Dutch","He that hath been bitten by a serpent is afraid of a rope."
"Dutch","He that buildeth upon the highway hath many advisers."
"Dutch","He that can be patient finds his foe at his feet."
"Dutch","He that can reply to an angry man is too hard for him."
"Dutch","He that chases another does not sit still himself."
"Dutch","He that comes unbidden goes unthanked."
"Dutch","He that complies against his will is of his own opinion still."
"Dutch","He that despises the little is not worthy of the great."
"Dutch","He that goes a borrowing goes a sorrowing."
"Dutch","He that has a choice has trouble."
"Dutch","He that has the devil on his neck must find him work."
"Dutch","It is bad marketing with empty pockets."
"Dutch","He that has the luck leads the bride to church."
"Dutch","He that tickles himself, may laugh when he will."
"Dutch","He that hath an ill name is half hanged."
"Dutch","He who plants fruit-trees, must not count upon the fruit."
"Dutch","He that hath many irons in the fire, some of them will cool."
"Dutch","He that hath no honey in his pot, let him have it in his mouth."
"Dutch","He that hears much, hears many lies."
"Dutch","He that is at sea has not the wind in his hands."
"Dutch","He that is bitten by a dog must apply some of its hair."
"Dutch","He that is embarked with the devil must sail with him."
"Dutch","He that lives with cripples learns to limp."
"Dutch","He that lives with wolves, must howl with wolves."
"Dutch","He that looketh on a woman to lust after her, hath committed adultery already with her in his heart."
"Dutch","He that loves his child chastises him."
"Dutch","He that makes himself a sheep will be eaten by the wolf."
"Dutch","He that plays at racket must watch the ball."
"Dutch","He that hath a head of butter must not come near the oven."
"Dutch","In prosperity caution, in adversity patience."
"Dutch","If fools ate no bread, corn would be cheap."
"Dutch","If fools went not to market, bad wares would not be sold."
"Dutch","If he waits long enough the world will be his own."
"Dutch","If he won't carry the sack, give him a whack."
"Dutch","If one won't another will."
"Dutch","If one, two and three say you are an ass, put on the ears."
"Dutch","If thou touchest pitch thou shalt be defiled."
"Dutch","If you pull one pig by the tail all the rest squeak."
"Dutch","Ill begun, ill done."
"Dutch","Ill tidings come soon enough."
"Dutch","Ill vessels seldom miscarry."
"Dutch","Ill weed grows fast."
"Dutch","He who makes himself honey will be eaten by the bees."
"Dutch","In eating 'tis good to begin, one morsel helps the other in."
"Dutch","I wish that he would sink as deep in the ground as a hare can run in ten years."
"Dutch","In prosperity think of adversity."
"Dutch","In small boxes the best spice."
"Dutch","In small woods may be caught large hares."
"Dutch","In the division of inheritance, friendship standeth still."
"Dutch","In the land of promise a man may die of hunger."
"Dutch","In time a mouse will gnaw threw a cable."
"Dutch","It flows like a fountain from a broomstick."
"Dutch","It grieveth one dog that another goeth into the kitchen."
"Dutch","It hangs upon a silken thread."
"Dutch","It is a hard morsel that chokes."
"Dutch","First a turnip, then a sheep; next a cow, and then the gallows."
"Dutch","An ounce of patience is worth a pound of brains."
"Dutch","Ill-matched horses draw badly."
"Dutch","High trees give more shadow than fruit."
"Dutch","He that finds something before it is lost, will die before he is sick."
"Dutch","He who slanders his neighbour makes a rod for himself."
"Dutch","He who undertakes too much seldom succeeds."
"Dutch","He who would catch a rogue must watch behind the door."
"Dutch","He who would gather honey must brave the sting of bees."
"Dutch","He who would gather roses, must not fear thorns."
"Dutch","He would be wise who knew all things beforehand."
"Dutch","He would bite a cent in two."
"Dutch","He would rather have a bumper in hand than a Bible."
"Dutch","He wriggles like an ell."
"Dutch","Heavy purses and light hearts can sustain much."
"Dutch","Hens like to lay when they see an egg."
"Dutch","I'll sleep on it."
"Dutch","Hew not too high, lest a chip fall in thine eye."
"Dutch","I wot well how the world wags, He is most loved that hath most bags."
"Dutch","High winds blow on high hills."
"Dutch","Hired horses make short miles."
"Dutch","His money takes the place of wisdom."
"Dutch","Honour once lost never returns."
"Dutch","How we apples swim! said the horse-turd."
"Dutch","Hunger eats through stone walls."
"Dutch","Hunger finds no fault with the cookery."
"Dutch","Hunger gives a relish even to raw beans."
"Dutch","Hungry flies bite sore."
"Dutch","I am not here to catch flies."
"Dutch","I have a mouth which I feed, it must speak what I please."
"Dutch","I may go over my reckoning, but not over my time."
"Dutch","He who mixes himself with the draff will be eaten by the swine."
"Dutch","Herring in the land, the doctor at a stand."
"Dutch","Good leading makes good following."
"Dutch","Great greediness to reap, helps not the money-heap."
"Dutch","Give credit where credit is due."
"Dutch","Give him an inch and he'll take an ell."
"Dutch","Give him an inch, he'll take an ell."
"Dutch","Give him your finger and he will seize your hand."
"Dutch","Go softly and look afar."
"Dutch","God cures, and the doctor gets the money."
"Dutch","God does not pay weekly, but pays at the end."
"Dutch","God gives birds their food, but they must fly for it."
"Dutch","Good company makes short miles."
"Dutch","Good company on a journey is worth a coach."
"Dutch","Good day to you all! said the fox, when he got into the goose-pen."
"Dutch","Give and take is fair play."
"Dutch","Good hunters track narrowly."
"Dutch","Give an ass oats and he runs after thistles."
"Dutch","Good right needs good help."
"Dutch","Good seed makes a good crop."
"Dutch","Good things require time."
"Dutch","Good tree, good fruit."
"Dutch","He that goes a-borrowing, goes a-sorrowing."
"Dutch","Grass grows not upon the highway."
"Dutch","He talks like a sausage without the fat."
"Dutch","Great boast. little roast."
"Dutch","Great cry and little wool, quoth the devil, when he sheared his hogs."
"Dutch","Great cry and little wool."
"Dutch","Great fishes break the net."
"Dutch","Great fools must have great bells."
"Dutch","Great gaps may be filled with small stones."
"Dutch","Good drink drives out bad thoughts."
"Dutch","Fortune is round; it makes one a king, another a dunghill."
"Dutch","First catch your hare, then cook it."
"Dutch","First catch your hare."
"Dutch","Folly hath eagle's wings, but the eyes of an owl."
"Dutch","Fools are free all the world over."
"Dutch","Fools ask questions that wise men cannot answer."
"Dutch","Fools ask what's o'clock, but wise men know their time."
"Dutch","Fools build house and wise men live in them."
"Dutch","For a flying enemy make a silver bridge."
"Dutch","For a good appetite there is no hard bread."
"Dutch","For great evils strong remedies."
"Dutch","Forbear a quarrel with a friend to move: anger breeds hatred; concord sweetens love."
"Dutch","Forced love does not last."
"Dutch","Give at first asking what you safely can; 'tis certain gain to help an honest man."
"Dutch","Fortune does not stand waiting at any one's door."
"Dutch","Grass is greener in other pastures."
"Dutch","From a spark the house is burnt."
"Dutch","From little things men go on to great."
"Dutch","From small beginning come great things."
"Dutch","From the boat we get to the ship."
"Dutch","From the cradle to the tomb, Not all gladness, not all gloom."
"Dutch","From the father comes honour, from the mother comfort."
"Dutch","From trivial things great contests oft arise."
"Dutch","Froth is no beer."
"Dutch","Full bottles and glasses make swearers and asses."
"Dutch","Full cup, steady hand."
"Dutch","Geese are plucked as long as they have any feathers."
"Dutch","Genius is an infinite capacity for taking pains."
"Dutch","Gentility, sent to market, will not buy a peck of meal."
"Dutch","Fortune and glass break soon, alas!"
"Dutch","He lives in the land of promise."
"Dutch","He is as good a divine as Judas was an apostle."
"Dutch","He is as poor as Job."
"Dutch","He is as sharp as a leaden dagger."
"Dutch","He is as welcome as the first day in Lent. (Alluding to fastday.)"
"Dutch","He is no merchant who always gains."
"Dutch","He is noble who performs noble deeds."
"Dutch","He is nobody's enemy but his own."
"Dutch","Great promisers, bad paymasters."
"Dutch","He is so wise, that he goes upon the ice three days before it freezes."
"Dutch","Good wine praises itself."
"Dutch","He is too stupid to be trusted alone by the fire."
"Dutch","He is as good a Catholic as Duke Alva's dog; who ate flesh in Lent."
"Dutch","He lays his eggs beside his nest."
"Dutch","He is of the race of Johnny Van Cleeve; who would always much rather have than give."
"Dutch","He lives long who lives well."
"Dutch","He lords it (or swaggers) like an eel in a tub."
"Dutch","He means well, but has a bad way of showing it."
"Dutch","He measures others by his own standard."
"Dutch","He must gape wide who would gape against an oven."
"Dutch","He must have crept out of hell while the devil was asleep."
"Dutch","He must indeed be a good master who never errs."
"Dutch","He must rise betimes who would please everybody."
"Dutch","He runs as fast as if he had eggs in his shoes."
"Dutch","He said devil, but meant you."
"Dutch","He studies the Bible of fifty-two leaves (a pack of cards)."
"Dutch","He swims on his own bullrush."
"Dutch","He keeps his word, as the sun keeps butter."
"Dutch","Hasty questions require slow answers."
"Dutch","Great talkers are little doers."
"Dutch","Great wealth, great care."
"Dutch","Great weights may hang on small wires."
"Dutch","Half a word to the wise is enough."
"Dutch","Hannibal is at the gate."
"Dutch","He is too idle to fetch his breath."
"Dutch","Hares are not caught with drums."
"Dutch","He is as easily caught as a hare with drums."
"Dutch","Hasty speed don't oft succeed."
"Dutch","He burns the candle at both ends."
"Dutch","He buys honey dear who has to lick it off thorns."
"Dutch","He cannot lay eggs, but he can cackle."
"Dutch","He counts his chickens before they are hatched."
"Dutch","He covers me with his wings, and bites me with his bill."
"Dutch","He has seen the wolf."
"Dutch","He earns a farthing and has a penn'orth of thirst."
"Dutch","He invites future injuries who rewards past ones."
"Dutch","He howls with the wolves, and bleats with the sheep."
"Dutch","He has the Bible on his lips, but not in his heart."
"Dutch","He has lost the nest-egg."
"Dutch","He has him under his thumb."
"Dutch","He is a man as a book."
"Dutch","He has a wolf-conscience."
"Dutch","He has a ton of knowledge, but the bottom is out."
"Dutch","He gapes like a clown at a fair."
"Dutch","He fell with his nose in the butter."
"Dutch","He is an aristocrat in folio."
"Dutch","He heed have plenty of meal who would stop every man's mouth."
"Dutch, English, French","Fine feathers make fine birds."
"Dutch, French","Better a ruined than a lost land."
"Dutch, French","Once is no custom."
"Dutch, French","What the sober man thinks the drunkard tells."
"Dutch, French","Shear the sheep but don't flay them."
"Dutch, French","One tale is good till another is told."
"Dutch, French","One take-this, is better than two thou-shalt-haves."
"Dutch, French","Necessity is the mother of invention."
"Dutch, French","It is too late to lock the stable door when the steed is stolen."
"Dutch, French","Honey is sweet, but the bee stings."
"Dutch, French","Enough is better than too much."
"Dutch, French","What the soldier said isn't evidence."
"Dutch, French","Between two stools the breech comes to the ground."
"Dutch, French","Between two stools you come to the ground."
"Dutch, French, German","Lightly come, lightly go."
"Dutch, French, German","Marry in haste repent at leisure."
"Dutch, French, German","Show me a liar, and I'll show you a thief."
"Dutch, French, German","Marry in haste and repent at leisure."
"Dutch, French, German","Lightning never strikes the same place twice."
"Dutch, French, German","By night all cats are grey."
"Dutch, French, German","Barren corn makes bitter bread."
"Dutch, French, German","Barnaby bright, Barnaby bright, the longest day and the shortest night."
"Dutch, French, German","Barking dogs don't bite."
"Dutch, French, German","Barking dogs seldom bite."
"Dutch, French, German","Great thieves hang little thieves."
"Dutch, French, German, Beaumont","One good turn deserves another."
"Dutch, French, German, Italian","A hungry belly has no ears."
"Dutch, French, German, Italian","Like master, like man."
"Dutch, French, German, Italian","All's well that ends well."
"Dutch, French, German, Italian","Hunger drives the wolf out of the wood."
"Dutch, French, German, Italian, Portuguese","All is not gold that glitters."
"Dutch, French, German, Portuguese","Short reckonings make long friends."
"Dutch, French, Italian","Misfortunes, when asleep, are not to be awakened."
"Dutch, French, Italian","Misfortunes that can't be avoided must be sweetened."
"Dutch, French, Italian","The tree is known by its fruit."
"Dutch, French, Italian","The tree does not fall at the first stroke."
"Dutch, French, Italian","Misfortunes never come single."
"Dutch, French, Italian","Ill weeds grow apace."
"Dutch, French, Italian","Honours change manners."
"Dutch, French, Italian","Misfortunes never come singly."
"Dutch, French, Italian","No rose without a thorn."
"Dutch, French, Italian","Better be envied than pitied."
"Dutch, French, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish","Every one for himself, and God for us all."
"Dutch, French, Italian, Spanish","Tell me the company you keep, and I will tell you who you are."
"Dutch, French, Spanish","It is good fishing in troubled waters."
"Dutch, German","It is hard to teach old dogs to bark."
"Dutch, German","Promising is one thing, performing another."
"Dutch, German","Penny wise, and pound foolish."
"Dutch, German","One crow does not peck out another's eyes."
"Dutch, German","One crow does not make a winter."
"Dutch, German","One beats the bush, and another catches the bird."
"Dutch, German","Once a whore, always a whore."
"Dutch, German","Many hounds are the death of the hare."
"Dutch, German","Little pots soon run over."
"Dutch, German","It is a bad well into which one must put water."
"Dutch, German","The beadle's cow may graze in the churchyard."
"Dutch, German","Live and let live."
"Dutch, German","The nearer the bone, the sweeter the flesh."
"Dutch, German","The young may die, the old must die."
"Dutch, German","Time and place make the thief."
"Dutch, German","Time brings roses."
"Dutch, German","To-day for money, to-morrow for nothing."
"Dutch, German","To-day red, to-morrow dead."
"Dutch, German","Truth is the daughter of time."
"Dutch, German","Unlaid eggs are uncertain chickens."
"Dutch, German","When God means to punish a nation, He deprives its rulers of wisdom."
"Dutch, German","When the sack is full, it pricks up its ears."
"Dutch, German","Heaviness may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning."
"Dutch, German","Who comes first, grinds first."
"Dutch, German","Necessity breaks iron."
"Dutch, German","Where there is nothing, the Emperor loses his right."
"Dutch, German","Better half an egg than empty shells."
"Dutch, German","Heaven protects children, sailors, and drunken men."
"Dutch, German","A burnt child dreads the fire."
"Dutch, German","A cat may look at a king."
"Dutch, German","A hired horse and one's own spurs make short miles."
"Dutch, German","A hog in armor is still a hog."
"Dutch, German","A honey tongue, a heart of gall."
"Dutch, German","A lean compromise is better than a fat lawsuit."
"Dutch, German","A little too late is much too late."
"Dutch, German","A word is enough to the wise."
"Dutch, German","Once bit, twice shy."
"Dutch, German","After rain comes sunshine."
"Dutch, German","Birds of a feather flock together."
"Dutch, German","Claw me and I'll claw thee."
"Dutch, German","Handsome apples are sometimes sour."
"Dutch, German","Heaven preserve me from my friends!"
"Dutch, German","Hearsay is half lies."
"Dutch, German","After meat comes mustard."
"Dutch, German","Handsome is as handsome does."
"Dutch, German","Dead dogs don't bite."
"Dutch, German","God helps the strongest."
"Dutch, German","East, west, home's best."
"Dutch, German","East or west, home is best."
"Dutch, German","Eagles don't catch flies."
"Dutch, German","Eagles do not breed doves."
"Dutch, German","Don't buy a cat in a sack."
"Dutch, German","Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savour."
"Dutch, German","He who would cheat a peasant, must take one with him."
"Dutch, German, Italian","A crown is no cure for the headache."
"Dutch, German, Italian","Wake not a sleeping dog."
"Dutch, German, Italian","While the grass grows, the steed starves."
"Dutch, German, Italian, Portuguese","Good wine needs no bush."
"Dutch, German, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish","Better alone than in bad company."
"Dutch, German, Spanish","The more haste, the less speed."
"Dutch, German, Spanish","As you sow, you shall reap."
"Dutch, German, Spanish","Shoemaker stick to your last."
"Dutch, German, Spanish","Cut your coat according to your cloth."
"Dutch, German, Spanish","Cut your coat to suit your cloth."
"Dutch, Irish","As the old cock crows, the young cock learns."
"Dutch, Italian","Little thieves are hanged by the neck, great ones by the purse."
"Dutch, Italian","Little thieves are hanged, but great ones escape."
"Dutch, Italian","It is easy to find a stick to beat a dog."
"Dutch, Italian","He who pays well is master of another man's purse."
"Dutch, Italian","Friends are like fiddle-strings; they must not be screwed too tight."
"Dutch, Italian","Friends are known in time of need."
"Dutch, Italian","Every day is not a holiday."
"Dutch, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish","One hand washes the other, and both the face."
"Dutch, Italian, Spanish","When God will not, the saints cannot."
"Dutch, Portuguese","Fine words don't fill the belly."
"Dutch, Portuguese","One misfortune brings on another."
"Dutch, Portuguese, Spanish","When the ox falls, there are many that will help to kill him."
"Dutch, Portuguese, Spanish","When the old dog barks, he gives counsel."
"Dutch, Spanish","When God pleases, it rains with every wind."
"Dutch, Spanish","The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence."
"Dutch, Spanish","The grapes are sour, said the fox, when he could not get at them."
"Dutch, Spanish","God deliver me from a man of one book."
"Dutch, Spanish","God deliver us from a gentleman by day and a friar by night."
"Eastern","Experience is a comb which nature gives to men when they are bald."
"Ecuadoran","The slanderer kills a thousand times; the assassin but once."
"Ecuadoran","When the treasure chest is open, even the just man sins."
"Ecuadoran","When one is helping another, both gain in strength."
"Ecuadoran","There can be no true pleasantry without discretion."
"Ecuadoran","Some go out to fleece and come back sheared."
"Ecuadoran","One never falls but on the side toward which one leans."
"Ecuadoran","He who does not go to sea knows not how to pray."
"Ecuadoran","The idle remarks of the rich are taken as maxims of wisdom by the poor."
"Ecuadoran","Hands that give also receive."
"Ecuadorian","Hands that give also receive."
"Ecuadorian","It's a fine sermon about fasting when the preacher just had lunch."
"Ecuadorian","No matter if the child's born with a flat nose, as long as it breathes."
"Ecuadorian","The devil's wiser more on account of his age than on account of being the devil."
"Ecuadorian","The strong forgive, the weak remember."
"Ecuadorian","Anger of the mind is poison to the soul."
"Efik","His opinions are like water in the bottom of a canoe, going from side to side."
"Efik","You lament not the dead, but lament the trouble of making a grave; the way of the ghost is longer than the grave."
"Efik","Sweet and sour walk hand in hand."
"Efik","A person looks only on the outside of things; god looks into the very heart."
"Efik","The attempt exceeds the ability of one, not of a multitude."
"Egyptian","Do not rejoice over what has not yet happened."
"Egyptian","The costly news of today will be free tomorrow."
"Egyptian","The man who marries my mother, I call him uncle."
"Egyptian","Silence is more than just a lack of words."
"Egyptian","Silence is the best answer to the stupid."
"Egyptian","Stretch your legs as far as your quilt goes."
"Egyptian","That which is said in your heart, let it be realized by springing up spontaneously -"
"Egyptian","Shining I Inside, let Him guide my heart."
"Egyptian","The barking of a dog does not disturb the man on a camel."
"Egyptian","The bullet that doesn't hit anything still makes a noise."
"Egyptian","The day cuts off the promise of the night."
"Egyptian","The dream of cats is all mice."
"Egyptian","The glow soon becomes ashes."
"Egyptian","The heart of a servant that is not beaten is full of curses."
"Egyptian","Run as hard as a wild beast if you will, but you won't get any reward greater than that destined for you."
"Egyptian","The man who has plenty of means of existence, conducts himself pretty much as he himself wishes."
"Egyptian","Pride goes before a fall."
"Egyptian","Money goes to peacocks."
"Egyptian","The idiot who has his eye on your wife is like a blood sucking fly."
"Egyptian","Pride and dignity would belong to women if only men would leave them alone."
"Egyptian","Money is sweet balm."
"Egyptian","More precious than our children are the children of our children."
"Egyptian","My Ka dwells in my body. Insult it not."
"Egyptian","Never speak untruth and falsity knowingly."
"Egyptian","News that's for money today will be for free tomorrow."
"Egyptian","Old countries don't disappear overnight; they stay for breakfast."
"Egyptian","One should do nothing with a false heart."
"Egyptian","One who drinks from the Nile must return."
"Egyptian","Protect the flame of your candle and it will light more."
"Egyptian","Pass by your enemy hungry but never naked."
"Egyptian","Rather a piece of bread with a happy heart than wealth with grief."
"Egyptian","Pride feels no pain."
"Egyptian","The wise man is great through his own merits."
"Egyptian","Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall."
"Egyptian","Bathe her and then look at her."
"Egyptian","Put a rope around your neck and many will be happy to drag you along."
"Egyptian","Put a stout heart to a steep hill."
"Egyptian","Put a stout heart to a stey brae."
"Egyptian","Put by for a rainy day."
"Egyptian","One who marries for love alone will have bad days but good nights."
"Egyptian","When you're at the dealing table, always look for the sucker-- and make sure it isn't you."
"Egyptian","The tears of the adulteress are ever ready to be shed."
"Egyptian","When a whore repents she becomes a matchmaker."
"Egyptian","When a woman is not singing, she is not working much either."
"Egyptian","When He opens up His path, may He carry me along, safe and sound."
"Egyptian","When I hear you, I believe you. When I see what you do, I'm surprised."
"Egyptian","When the angels appear, the devils run away."
"Egyptian","When the Angels arrive, the devils leave."
"Egyptian","When a slave mounts a camel he wants to ride on both humps."
"Egyptian","When you speak, know that which can be brought against you."
"Egyptian","What comes this way, goes this way."
"Egyptian","Who has not done any evil act, his or her heart may be found right."
"Egyptian","Whoever is ashamed to sleep with his wife will never have children."
"Egyptian","Whoever lets himself be led by the heart will never lose his way."
"Egyptian","Wise rising gives joy."
"Egyptian","Wish thy friend joy of his journey, but pray in secret that he have no joy, for then may he return quickly to thee."
"Egyptian","Yesterday's drunkenness will not quench today's thirst."
"Egyptian","Your friend chooses pebbles for you and your enemy counts your faults."
"Egyptian","Youth is beauty, even in cattle."
"Egyptian","When the angels present themselves, the devils abscond."
"Egyptian","They couldn't find any reason to criticize the roses, so they complained that they were red."
"Egyptian","The miser destroys what he collected."
"Egyptian","The miserable got together with the hopeless."
"Egyptian","The opinion of the intelligent is better than the certainty of the ignorant."
"Egyptian","The person who is not ashamed does whatever he wants."
"Egyptian","The son of the swan is a good swimmer."
"Egyptian","The tyrant is only the slave turned inside out."
"Egyptian","The wise man never takes a step too long for his leg."
"Egyptian","When a son attends to his father, it is a twofold joy for both; when wise things are prescribed to him, the son is."
"Egyptian","They couldn't beat the donkey so they beat the saddle."
"Egyptian","The marksman hitteth the mark partly by pulling, partly by letting go."
"Egyptian","This cub is from that lion."
"Egyptian","Those who are in the following of the prince of everlastingness and God of Life, sing with joy."
"Egyptian","Those who had some shame are dead."
"Egyptian","To seek without finding, equals waste of time."
"Egyptian","We let him in, he brought his donkey along."
"Egyptian","We let him in; but then he brought his donkey along, too."
"Egyptian","Wealth can come through your Creator's good-will."
"Egyptian","What comes easily is lost easily."
"Egyptian","The woman who does not covet the possessions of her husband is in love with another man."
"Egyptian","A monkey is a gazelle in its mother's eyes."
"Egyptian","Give saturday, you will find sunday."
"Egyptian","Because we focused on the snake, we missed the scorpion."
"Egyptian","Be patient with a bad neighbor. Maybe he'll leave or a disaster will take him out."
"Egyptian","An onion shared with a friend tastes like roast lamb."
"Egyptian","An absent person should have his excuse."
"Egyptian","An absent person has his excuse."
"Egyptian","A woman will be twice bound when her chains feel comfortable."
"Egyptian","Believe the liar up to the door of his house and no further than that."
"Egyptian","A person with a wound on his head keeps touching it."
"Egyptian","Better half a donkey than half a camel."
"Egyptian","A man's ruin lies in his tongue."
"Egyptian","A man with two ears can be supported by two words."
"Egyptian","A goose's child is a swimmer."
"Egyptian","A camel does not tease another camel about his humps."
"Egyptian","A borrowed coat does not keep one warm."
"Egyptian","A blow to another's purse is like a blow to a mountain of sand."
"Egyptian","A beautiful thing is never perfect."
"Egyptian","A back does not break from bending."
"Egyptian","A small house can lodge a hundred friends."
"Egyptian","Error carries away the unteachable."
"Egyptian","Beautiful discourse is rarer than emerald, yet it can be found among the servant girls at the grindstones."
"Egyptian","May no lies be spoken against me in the presence of God."
"Egyptian","Friendship doubles joy and halves grief."
"Egyptian","For the benefit of the flowers, we water the thorns, too."
"Egyptian","Follow the saint no further than his doorstep."
"Egyptian","False ambition serves the neck."
"Egyptian","Evil words fill some with astonishment."
"Egyptian","Bed is the poor man's opera."
"Egyptian","Every man must act in the rhythm of his time, such is wisdom."
"Egyptian","Do not rejoice over what has not yet happened."
"Egyptian","Education is what you know, not what's in the book."
"Egyptian","Dress up a stick and you get a doll."
"Egyptian","Dress up a stick and it'll be a beautiful bride."
"Egyptian","Do not weaken the attention of him who is occupied."
"Egyptian","Declare your line of conduct without reticence."
"Egyptian","Cover your candle, it will light more."
"Egyptian","Cover up the good you do -- do like the Nile and conceal your sources."
"Egyptian","Borrowing is bad, and paying back is always a loss."
"Egyptian","Everything is formed by habit, even praying."
"Egyptian","It is a wretched thing to injure a poor man."
"Egyptian","I believe what you say, I'm only surprised at what you do."
"Egyptian","I curse my son and I hate who says amen."
"Egyptian","If there were no fault, there would be no pardon."
"Egyptian","If your friend is like honey, don't lick all of it."
"Egyptian","If you are a leader of peace, listen to the discourse of the petitioner. Be not abrupt with him; that would trouble him."
"Egyptian","Man fears time - Time fears the pyramids."
"Egyptian","If you are wise, look after your house; love your wife without alloy."
"Egyptian","If you have to drag a dog to the hunt, neither he nor his hunting is any good."
"Egyptian","If you live in a glass house, don't throw stones."
"Egyptian","If you love, love the moon; if you steal, steal a camel."
"Egyptian","If you marry a monkey for his wealth, the money goes and the monkey remains as is."
"Egyptian","If you put a rope around your neck, many people will be glad to drag you by it."
"Egyptian","I am talking to you, daughter-in-law, so that you could hear it, neighbor."
"Egyptian","In his own nest a beetle is a sultan."
"Egyptian","If there were no wrongdoing, there would be no forgiveness."
"Egyptian","Know those who are faithful to you when you are in low estate."
"Egyptian","Knowledge is in the head, not the copybook."
"Egyptian","Learn politeness from the impolite."
"Egyptian","Learn to rise up out of the enigmatic egg in the hidden land."
"Egyptian","Lie to a liar, for lies are his coin; Steal from a thief, for that is easy; lay a trap for a trickster and catch him at first attempt, but beware of an honest man."
"Egyptian","Listen with kindness for a clear explanation."
"Egyptian","Love and let the world know, hate in silence."
"Egyptian","Making money on manure is better than losing money on musk."
"Egyptian","Making money selling manure is better than losing money selling musk."
"Egyptian","Grapes are eaten one by one."
"Egyptian","Does sheep manure turn to caramel?"
"Egyptian","Malice drinketh its own poison."
"Egyptian","If your friend is honey, don't lick it all."
"Egyptian","He who chatters with you will chatter about you."
"Egyptian","Honorable is the person who is aware of his power, yet refrains from inflicting bad things onto others."
"Egyptian","He has his own brain -- he can solve his own problems."
"Egyptian","He who couldn't overcome the donkey took on the saddle."
"Egyptian","He who has a back is not beaten on the belly."
"Egyptian","He who knows not shame does whatever he likes."
"Egyptian","He who understands music understands the cosmos."
"Egyptian","He whose house is made out of glass, shouldn't throw stones at people."
"Egyptian","Great God is the ruler of all the gods."
"Egyptian","Pride feels no pain."
"Egyptian","The tyrant is only the slave turned inside out."
"Egyptian","The barking of a dog does not disturb the man on a camel."
"Egyptian","Run as hard as a wild beast if you will, but you won't get any reward greater than that destined for you."
"Egyptian","Put by for a rainy day."
"Egyptian","Put a stout heart to a stey brae."
"Egyptian","Put a stout heart to a steep hill."
"Egyptian","Put a rope around your neck and many will be happy to drag you along."
"Egyptian","When the angels present themselves, the devils abscond."
"Egyptian","Pride goes before a fall."
"Egyptian","Be patient with a bad neighbor: he may move or face misfortune."
"Egyptian","Malice drinketh its own poison."
"Egyptian","A man's ruin lies in his tongue."
"Egyptian","Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall."
"Egyptian","Because we focused on the snake, we missed the scorpion."
"Egyptian","Bed is the poor man's opera."
"Egyptian","False ambition serves the neck."
"Egyptian","If there were no fault, there would be no pardon."
"Egyptian","Learn politeness from the impolite."
"Egyptian","Making money selling manure is better than losing money selling musk."
"Egyptian","A beautiful thing is never perfect."
"Ekonda","Who gets lost in the forest takes it out on who leads him back to the right road."
"Ekonda","If you want to clear the land secretly, the noise of the axe will give you away."
"Ekonda","If a father does not cultivate, the son does not inherit land."
"Ekonda","When your neighbour is wrong you point a finger, but when you are wrong you hide."
"Ekonda","When your finger is in pain, your sight is not lazy."
"Ekonda","To form a dog is the ruin of education."
"Ekonda","The leopard does not eat fish."
"Ekonda","If the metal is not good, you cannot take it out on the blacksmith."
"Ekonda","The sore is cured but the scar remains."
"Ekonda","Do not grab your heel until the ant has bitten you."
"Ekonda","Between brothers, whether the trial is won or lost, makes no difference."
"Ekonda","A trial between brothers has no winners or losers."
"El Salvadoran","That which in the beautiful woman is grace, in the ugly woman turns to disgrace."
"El Salvadoran","It's fair that he who tried to steal yours, loses his."
"El Salvadoran","Dip the pitcher into the water enough and it finally breaks."
"El Salvadoran","So many years playing the marquise and she still doesn't know how to wave a fan."
"El Salvadoran","He who takes on too much squeezes little."
"El Salvadoran","Say nothing about another that you wouldn't want to hear about yourself."
"English","Don't dig your grave with your own knife and fork."
"English","Let him make use of instinct who cannot make use of reason."
"English","In for a penny, in for a pound."
"English","Self-praise is no praise at all."
"English","He who says what he likes will hear what he does not like."
"English","The tongue ever turns to the aching tooth."
"English","When a proud man hears another praised, he feels himself injured."
"English","The greater the sinner, the greater the saint."
"English","Every path has its puddle."
"English","A full cup must be carried steadily."
"English","We are usually the best men when in the worst health."
"English","Don't fall before you're pushed."
"English","The worse the passage the more welcome the port."
"English","The absent are always in the wrong."
"English","Peace makes plenty."
"English","Women in mischief are wiser than men."
"English","Advice is least heeded when most needed."
"English","Never fall out with your bread and butter."
"English","All temptations are found either in hope or fear."
"English","Spread the table and contention will cease."
"English","Do not be in a hurry to tie what you cannot untie."
"English","A man's first care should be to avoid the reproaches of his own heart, his next to escape the censures of the world."
"English","The shortest answer is doing."
"English","A full cup must be carried steadily."
"English","A good beginning makes a good ending."
"English","A good conscience is a continual feast."
"English","A good lawyer makes a bad neighbor."
"English","A good archer is not known by his arrows, but his aim."
"English","A good candle-holder proves a good gamester."
"English","A friend to all is a friend to none."
"English","A friend in need is a friend in deed."
"English","A fox smells its own lair first."
"English","A fool will laugh when he is drowning."
"English","A fool at forty is a fool indeed."
"English","A fool and his money are soon parted."
"English","A flow will have an ebb."
"English","A fool can ask more questions in an hour than a wise man can answer in seven years."
"English","A fool may ask more questions in an hour than a wise man can answer in seven years."
"English","A fool's head never whitens."
"English","A fox smells its own stink first."
"English","A hound's food is in its legs."
"English","A king's face should show grace."
"English","A joyful evening may follow a sorrowful morning."
"English","A joy that's shared is a joy made double."
"English","A joy that is shared is a joy made double."
"English","A bold attempt is half of success."
"English","A jack of all trades is master of none."
"English","A fish follows the bait."
"English","A hungry man is an angry man."
"English","A house built by the wayside is either too high or too low."
"English","A good man in an evil society seems the greatest villain of all."
"English","A hero is a man who is afraid to run away."
"English","A hen is heavy when carried far."
"English","A half the truth is often a whole lie."
"English","A guilty conscience needs no accuser."
"English","A grain of prudence is worth a pound of craft."
"English","A goose quill is more dangerous than a lion's claw."
"English","A good surgeon has an eagle's eye, a lion's heart, and a lady's hand."
"English","A good payer will not object to leaving a deposit."
"English","A house divided cannot stand."
"English","A big tree attracts the woodsman's ax."
"English","A cat may look at a king."
"English","A cast is not a catch."
"English","A candle lights others and consumes itself."
"English","A burnt child dreads the fire."
"English","A bridle for the tongue is a necessary piece of furniture."
"English","A blind man will not thank you for a looking-glass."
"English","A black plum is as sweet as a white."
"English","A broken leg is not healed by a silk stocking."
"English","A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush."
"English","A child may have too much of his mother's blessing."
"English","A bellyful is one of meat, drink, or sorrow."
"English","A lawyer's opinion is worth nothing unless paid for."
"English","A man is as old as he feels, and a woman as old as she looks."
"English","A bad penny always turns up."
"English","The most manifest sign of wisdom is a continual cheerfulness."
"English","A bean in liberty is better than a comfit in prison."
"English","Although shrimps may dance around, they do not leave the river."
"English","A black hen lays a white egg."
"English","A crowd is not company."
"English","A fair death honors the whole life."
"English","A fair booty makes a fair thief."
"English","A drunken man is always dry."
"English","A drowning man will clutch at a straw."
"English","A dog's nose and a maid's knee are always cold."
"English","A dog is a man's best friend."
"English","A dimple in the chin, your living comes in; a dimple in the cheek, your living to seek."
"English","A cat with a straw tail keeps away from fire."
"English","A crown's no cure for a headache."
"English","A change is as good as a rest."
"English","A creaking door hangs longest."
"English","A creaking cart goes long on the wheels."
"English","A cracked bell can never sound well."
"English","A coward dies a thousand times before his death. The valiant never taste of death but once."
"English","A cold April the barn will fill."
"English","A cobbler should stick to his last."
"English","A cobbler formed the shape of shoes on a wooden foot shaped last. If it lasted long he was happy."
"English","A fault confessed is half redressed."
"English","A degenerate nobleman is like a turnip. There is nothing good of him but that which is underground."
"English","Advice is least heeded when most needed."
"English","Actions speak louder than words."
"English","Advantage is a better soldier than rashness."
"English","Adventures are to the adventurous."
"English","Adversity flatters no man."
"English","Adversity is easier borne than prosperity forgot."
"English","Ale in, wit out."
"English","Adversity makes strange bedfellows."
"English","Abundance maketh poor."
"English","Advice to all, security for none."
"English","Advice when most needed is least heeded."
"English","After a storm comes a calm."
"English","After dinner sit a while, after supper walk a mile."
"English","Age and wedlock bring a man to his nightcap."
"English","A trodden path bears no grass."
"English","Adversity makes a man wise, not rich."
"English","A young man idle, an old man needy."
"English","A man is as old as he feels himself to be."
"English","A watched kettle never boils."
"English","A watched pot never boils."
"English","A woman's work is never done."
"English","A word spoken is past recalling."
"English","A word to the wise is enough."
"English","Action is the proper fruit of knowledge."
"English","A young doctor makes a humpy churchyard."
"English","Accusing the times is but excusing ourselves."
"English","Absence is a shrew."
"English","Absence makes the heart grow fonder."
"English","Absence sharpens love, presence strengthens it."
"English","Absence sharpens love; presence strengthens it."
"English","Absence, and a friendly neighbor, washeth away love."
"English","All are not merry that dance lightly."
"English","A worthy woman is the crown of her husband."
"English","All weapons of war cannot arm fear."
"English","All temptations are found either in hope or fear."
"English","All temptations are found in either hope or fear."
"English","All that glisters is not gold."
"English","All that glitters is not gold."
"English","All things change and we with them."
"English","Age and wedlock tame man and beast."
"English","All things come to those who wait."
"English","All hat and no cattle."
"English","All work and no play make Jack a dull body."
"English","All work and no play makes Jack filthy rich."
"English","All's fair in love and war."
"English","All's well that ends well."
"English","Alms never make poor."
"English","Almsgiving never impoverished, stealing never enriched, and prosperity never made wise."
"English","All things come to he who waits."
"English","All flowers are not in one garland."
"English","All are not thieves that dogs bark at."
"English","All ask if a man be rich, no one if he be good."
"English","All be the same in a hundred years."
"English","All cats are gray in the dark."
"English","All cats love fish but hate to get their paws wet."
"English","All clever men are birds of prey."
"English","All roads lead to Rome."
"English","All covet, all lose."
"English","All of you that intend to ring, you undertake a dangerous thing."
"English","All for one and one for all."
"English","All frills and no knickers."
"English","All good things come to an end."
"English","All good things must come to an end."
"English","All happiness is in the mind."
"English","A trapped cat becomes a lion."
"English","All complain for want of memory, but none for want of judgement."
"English","A man without a wife is but half a man."
"English","A man is as old as he feels, a woman as old as she looks."
"English","A man is known by the company he keeps."
"English","A man may die old at thirty and young at eighty."
"English","A man of courage never wants weapons."
"English","A man of words and not of deeds is like a garden full of weeds."
"English","A miss by an inch is a miss by a mile."
"English","A man who is his own lawyer has a fool for a client."
"English","A man among children will long be a child; a child among men will soon be a man."
"English","A man without religion is a horse without a bridle."
"English","A man's first care should be to avoid the reproaches of his own heart, his next to escape the censures of the world."
"English","A man's home is his castle."
"English","A merry heart goes all the way."
"English","A merry heart makes a long life."
"English","A trouble shared is a trouble halved."
"English","A man that will fight will find a cudgel in every hedge."
"English","A little knowledge is dangerous. Drink deep, or taste not the puritan waters."
"English","A leap year is never a good sheep year."
"English","A lie can be halfway around the world before the truth gets its boots on."
"English","A lie has no legs, but a scandal has wings."
"English","A lie has no legs."
"English","A lie has short legs."
"English","A life of leisure, and a life of laziness, are two things."
"English","A man has a choice to begin love, but not to end it."
"English","A little body often harbours a great soul."
"English","A man can't be hanged for his thoughts."
"English","A little Learning is a dangerous thing."
"English","A little wind kindles, much puts out the fire."
"English","A live dog is better than a dead lion."
"English","A lock is better than suspicion."
"English","A maid who laughs is half taken."
"English","A miss is as good as a mile."
"English","A light burden's heavy if far borne."
"English","A snow year, a rich year."
"English","A rich man's joke is always funny."
"English","A rising tide lifts all boats."
"English","A rolling stone gathers no moss."
"English","A shady lane breeds mud."
"English","A sin confessed is half forgiven."
"English","A merry host makes merry guests."
"English","A smooth sea never made a skillful mariner."
"English","A puff of wind and popular praise weigh the same."
"English","A son is a son till he gets him a wife, but a daughter's a daughter the rest of your life."
"English","A sound mind in a sound body."
"English","A still tongue makes a wise head."
"English","A stitch in time saves nine."
"English","A stumble may prevent a fall."
"English","A thief believes everybody steals."
"English","A small family is soon provided for."
"English","A place for everything and everything in its place."
"English","A mother never thinks her baby is ugly."
"English","A new broomsweeps clean."
"English","A nod's as good as a wink to a blind horse."
"English","A penny saved is a penny earned."
"English","A penny saved is very grateful."
"English","A person is known by the company he keeps."
"English","A ragged colt may make a good horse."
"English","A pig never smells its own stink."
"English","A quiet conscience sleeps in thunder."
"English","A poor beauty finds more lovers than husbands."
"English","A poor man's debt makes a great noise."
"English","A poor workman blames his tools."
"English","A pot of milk is ruined by a drop of poison."
"English","A proverb is the child of experience."
"English","A lean agreement is better than a fat judgement."
"English","A picture is worth a thousand words, and yet picture books are for infants."
"English","There is never a debt is paid so high as that which the wet owes to the dry."
"English","There are two sides to every question."
"English","There was never a conflict without a woman."
"English","There is small choice in rotten apples."
"English","There is safety in numbers."
"English","There is not the thickness of a sixpence between good and evil."
"English","There is no time like the present."
"English","There is no good accord where every man would be a lord."
"English","There is no fool than an old fool."
"English","There is no flying from fate."
"English","There is no better manure than the farmer's foot."
"English","There's always a deep breath before a plunge."
"English","There is no benefit that sticks to the fingers."
"English","There's many a good cock come out of a tattered bag."
"English","There is honour among thieves."
"English","There is honor even among thieves."
"English","There is but one road out of the tower and that leads to the scaffold."
"English","There is but one good mother-in-law and she is dead."
"English","There is but an hour a day between a good housewife and a bad one."
"English","There is better fish in the sea than have ever been caught."
"English","There is an hour wherein a man might be happy all his life, could he find it."
"English","There is an exception to every rule."
"English","There is a time to speak and a time to be silent."
"English","There is a time and place for everything."
"English","Thrift is a great revenue. a little, often, leaves wrinkles in the purse."
"English","There is no better looking-glass than an old friend."
"English","They brag most that can do the least."
"English","The nearer the bone, the sweeter the meat."
"English","This too, shall pass."
"English","Think of ease, but work on."
"English","Think globally, act locally."
"English","Think before you speak."
"English","Think and thank god."
"English","Things past cannot be recalled."
"English","Things are not always what they seem."
"English","They who would be young when they are old must be old when they are young."
"English","They who love most are least valued."
"English","There's always a calm before a storm."
"English","They that think no ill are soonest beguiled."
"English","There are too many chiefs and not enough Indians."
"English","There's one law for the rich and another for the poor."
"English","There's none so blind as those who will not see."
"English","There's no time like the present."
"English","There's no substitute for experience."
"English","There's no place like home."
"English","There's no fool like an old fool."
"English","There's no arguing with the barrel of a gun."
"English","There's no accounting for taste."
"English","There's more than one way to skin a cat."
"English","There's many a slip 'twixt the cup and the lip."
"English","There's many a good tune played on an old fiddle."
"English","They who have much business must have much pardon."
"English","The older the fiddler, the sweeter the tune."
"English","There is a remedy for everything except death."
"English","The proof of the pudding is in the eating."
"English","The post of honour is the post of danger."
"English","The pitcher will go to the well once too often."
"English","The pitcher that goes too often to the well is broken at last."
"English","The pitcher goes so often to the well that it comes home broken at last."
"English","The person who pursues revenge should dig two graves."
"English","The person who is tired will find time to sleep. A person with a bad name is already half hanged."
"English","The pen is mightier than the sword."
"English","The other side of the road always looks cleanest."
"English","The saddest dog sometimes wags its tail."
"English","The only stupid question is the one that is not asked."
"English","The safest antidote against sorrow is employment."
"English","The old ox plows a straight furrow."
"English","The offender never pardons."
"English","The north wind has no corn and a poor man no friend."
"English","The noisy fowler catches no birds."
"English","The noisiest drum has nothing in it but air."
"English","The nest of the blind bird is made by god."
"English","The nail that sticks out gets pounded."
"English","The more you get the more you want."
"English","The more things change, the more they stay the same."
"English","The more the merrier."
"English","An abundance of money ruins youth."
"English","The opera ain't over until the fat lady sings."
"English","The third time someone tries to put a saddle on you, you should admit you're a horse."
"English","There are no small parts, only small actors."
"English","The worse the passage the more welcome the port."
"English","The wit of one man, the wisdom of many."
"English","The wish is father to the thought."
"English","The wind in one's face makes one wise."
"English","The way to a man's heart is through his stomach."
"English","The village slatternly wench has the form of a dove, the heart of a fox, and the mind of an toad."
"English","The value of ANYTHING is determined by the agreement of only two people."
"English","The truth shall set you free."
"English","The tree is known by its fruit."
"English","The road to hell is paved with good intentions."
"English","The third's the charm."
"English","Throw dirt enough, and some will stick."
"English","The sting of a reproach is the truth of it."
"English","The start of a journey should never be mistaken for success."
"English","The squeaky wheel gets the grease."
"English","The squeaking wheel gets the grease."
"English","The spirit is willing but the flesh is weak."
"English","The Spaniard is a bad servant but a worse master."
"English","The show must go on."
"English","The shortest distance between two points is a straight line."
"English","The shortest answer is doing."
"English","The ship that will not obey the helm will have to obey the rocks."
"English","The secret of success is constancy of purpose."
"English","The tongue ever turns to the aching tooth."
"English","What ""they say"" is half lies."
"English","We all make mistakes."
"English","What is gold is worth gold."
"English","What is extraordinary, try to look at with your own eyes."
"English","What is bought is cheaper than a gift."
"English","What is a man but his mind?"
"English","What goes up must come down."
"English","What goes around comes around."
"English","What costs little is little esteemed."
"English","What cannot gold do?"
"English","What can't speak can't lie."
"English","What will be, will be."
"English","What bread men break is broken to them again."
"English","What you don't know can't hurt you."
"English","Well begun is half done."
"English","Welcome, evil, if thou comest alone."
"English","We never miss the well till it runs dry."
"English","We never know the worth of water until the well is dry."
"English","We must take the bad with the good."
"English","We must learn to walk before we can run."
"English","We have all forgot more than we remember."
"English","We are usually the best men when in the worst health."
"English","We are often shot with our own feathers."
"English","We are all in this together."
"English","Those who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones."
"English","What can't be cured must be endured."
"English","When all men say you are an ass, it is high time to bray."
"English","'tis better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all."
"English","When passion entereth at the foregate, wisdom goeth out of the postern."
"English","When one door shuts, another opens."
"English","When it rains, it pours."
"English","When in Rome, do as the Romans do."
"English","When in motion, to push on is easy."
"English","When in doubt, do nought."
"English","When friends fall out the truth doth appear."
"English","When flatters meet, the devil goes to dinner."
"English","When flatterers meet, the devil goes to dinner."
"English","What the eye doesn't see, the heart doesn't grieve over."
"English","When all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail."
"English","Waste not, want not."
"English","When all is wet to the skin, hold out yet."
"English","When all fruit fails, welcome haws."
"English","When all candles be out, all cats be gray."
"English","When Adam delved, and Eve span, where was then the gentleman?"
"English","When a proud man hears another praised, he feels himself injured."
"English","When a man's coat is threadbare it is easy to pick a hole in it."
"English","When a man repeats a promise again and again, he means to fail you."
"English","Whatsoever was the father of the disease, an ill diet was the mother."
"English","Whatever man has done, man may do."
"English","What's sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander."
"English","What you lose on the swings you gain on the roundabouts."
"English","When everyone takes care of himself, care is taken of all."
"English","Time trieth truth."
"English","We are all Adam's children, but silk makes the difference."
"English","Too hot to last."
"English","Too far East is West."
"English","Tomorrow is another day."
"English","Tomorrow is a new day."
"English","To talk without thinking is to shoot without aiming."
"English","To know all is to forgive all."
"English","To kill two birds with one stone."
"English","To err is human; to forgive is divine."
"English","To err is human, to forgive is divine."
"English","Touch pot, touch penny."
"English","Tis money that begets money."
"English","Tread on the ball, live to spend all."
"English","Time is the soul of business."
"English","Time is of the esscence."
"English","Time is money."
"English","Time is a great healer."
"English","Time is a file that wears and makes no noise."
"English","Time heals all wounds."
"English","Time flies when you're having fun."
"English","Time flies like an arrow, fruit flies like a banana."
"English","Time and tide wait for no men."
"English","Time and tide wait for no man."
"English","Time and thinking tame the strongest grief."
"English","To each his own."
"English","Two wrongs do not make a right."
"English","Want is the whetstone of wit."
"English","Vows made in storms are forgotten in calms."
"English","Virtue which parleys is near surrender."
"English","Venture not to defend what your judgment doubts of."
"English","Venture a small fish to catch a much greater one."
"English","Variety is the spice of life."
"English","Use your wit as a shield, not as a sword."
"English","Use soft words and hard arguments."
"English","Up a creek without a paddle."
"English","United we stand, divided we fall."
"English","Too many cooks spoil the broth."
"English","Two wrongs don't make a right, but three lefts do."
"English","'Tis money that begets money."
"English","Two things prolong your life: A quiet heart and a loving wife."
"English","Two things a man should never get angry at: what he can help and what he cannot."
"English","Two heads are better than one."
"English","Turn the cake in the pan."
"English","Try not to become a man of success but a man of value."
"English","Truth will out."
"English","Truth is stranger than fiction."
"English","Truth comes back where she has once visited."
"English","Trust not a new friend or an old enemy."
"English","Trust god and keep your powder dry."
"English","Treat them mean, keep them keen."
"English","Two's company, three's a crowd."
"English","New brooms sweep clear."
"English","No man is an island."
"English","No man can serve two masters."
"English","No hoof, no horse."
"English","No good building without a good foundation."
"English","No gain without pain."
"English","No cows, no cares."
"English","Never swap horses crossing a stream."
"English","No alchemy like savings."
"English","No man's religion ever survived his morals."
"English","New brooms sweep clean."
"English","Never, Never... allow anyone to persuade you to suspend your common sense."
"English","Never write what you dare not sign."
"English","Never trouble trouble until trouble troubles you."
"English","Never too old to learn."
"English","Never tell your enemy that your foot aches."
"English","Men are not measured in inches."
"English","No barber shaves so close but another finds his work."
"English","No time to waste like the present."
"English","Nothing is lost in a good market."
"English","Nor pot to piss in."
"English","None knows the weight of another's burden."
"English","None ever took a stone out of the temple but the dust did fly in his eyes."
"English","None can guess the jewel by the casket."
"English","None but the brave deserve the fair."
"English","Noblesse oblige."
"English","No man is angry that feels not himself hurt."
"English","No worst pestilence than a familiar enemy."
"English","No man is content with his lot."
"English","No smoke without fire."
"English","No risk, no gain."
"English","No revenge is more honorable than the one not taken."
"English","No pain, no injury."
"English","No pain, no gain."
"English","No news is good news."
"English","Never step over one duty to perform another."
"English","Noble birth is a poor dish at table."
"English","Money is a good servant, but a bad master."
"English","Mouth is in gear, brain is in neutral."
"English","More haste, less speed."
"English","Money talks."
"English","Money talks, bullshit walks."
"English","Money spent on brain is never spent in vain."
"English","Money makes the world go around."
"English","Never tell tales out of school."
"English","Money is the root of all evil."
"English","Must is a king's word."
"English","Money for old rope."
"English","Money begets money."
"English","Misfotunes come on wings and depart on foot."
"English","Misery loves company."
"English","Mind your p's and q's."
"English","Mind what you must live by."
"English","Pride in prosperity turns to misery in adversity."
"English","Money makes the mare go."
"English","Necessity is the mother of invention."
"English","Never send a boy to do a man's job."
"English","Never put off to tomorrow what you can do today."
"English","Never put off till tomorrow what you can do the day after tomorrow."
"English","Never love with all your heart, it only ends in breaking."
"English","Never let the sun go down on your anger."
"English","Never fall out with your bread and butter."
"English","Never do today what you can put off till tomorrow."
"English","Much ado and little help."
"English","Needs must when the devil drives."
"English","Much bread grows in a winter night."
"English","Necessity is the mother of all invention."
"English","Ne'er cast a clout till May be out."
"English","Nature, time, and patience are three great physicians."
"English","Nature is the true law."
"English","Nature abhors a vacuum."
"English","My mind to me is a kingdom."
"English","Nothing ventured, nothing gained."
"English","Never choose your women or linen by candlelight."
"English","Patience is a bitter plant, but it has sweet fruit."
"English","Please the eye and plague the heart."
"English","Pin not your faith on another's sleeve."
"English","Pigs might fly lest they had wings."
"English","People with wax heads shouldn't walk in the sun."
"English","People who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones."
"English","Penny wise, pound foolish."
"English","Nothing succeeds like success."
"English","Patience is a virtue."
"English","Poor men seek meat for their stomach, rich men stomach for their meat."
"English","Past shame, past grace."
"English","Pain is only weakness leaving the body."
"English","Paddle your own ..."
"English","Out of sight, out of mind."
"English","Our fear commonly meets us at the door by which we think to run from it."
"English","Opportunity seldom knocks twice."
"English","Opportunity makes the thief."
"English","Peace makes plenty."
"English","Practice does not make perfect but a perfect practice makes perfect."
"English","It is no use crying over spilt milk."
"English","Prevention is better than cure."
"English","Prettiness dies first."
"English","Prayer knocks till the door opens."
"English","Praise the sea but keep on land."
"English","Praise the sea but keep on land."
"English","Practice what you preach."
"English","Plenty know good ale, but don't know much after that."
"English","Practice makes perfect."
"English","Pluck not a courtesy in the bud."
"English","Power corrupts; absolute power corrupts absolutely."
"English","Power attracts the corruptible."
"English","Poverty is not a shame, but the being ashamed of it is."
"English","Poverty is no vice, but an inconvenience."
"English","Poor Trust is dead; Bad Pay killed him."
"English","Poor thieves in halters we behold; And great thieves in their chains of gold."
"English","One year of joy, another of comfort, and all rest of content."
"English","Practice makes permanent."
"English","Old is gold."
"English","Only two things in life are certain; death and taxes."
"English","One doctor makes work for another."
"English","One boy is more trouble that a dozen girls."
"English","Once smitten, twice shy."
"English","Once bitten, twice shy."
"English","Once bitten, forever smitten."
"English","Old sins have long shadows."
"English","One does not wash one's dirty linen in public."
"English","Old praise dies unless you feed it."
"English","One father is more than a hundred schoolmasters."
"English","Old habbits die hard."
"English","Old chains gall less than new."
"English","Oh what a tangled web we weave, when first we practice to deceive."
"English","Of wine the middle, of oil the top, and of honey the bottom is best."
"English","Of soup and love, the first is best."
"English","Now or never."
"English","Medicines be not meat to live by."
"English","Old sheep shouldn't dress in lamb's fashion."
"English","One nail drives out another."
"English","Nothing venture, nothing gain."
"English","One volunteer is worth two pressed men."
"English","One swallow doesn't make a summer."
"English","One swallow does not make a summer."
"English","One step at a time."
"English","One rotten apple spoils the whole barrel."
"English","One picture is worth ten thousand words."
"English","One does harm, and another bears the blame."
"English","One of these day is none of these days."
"English","Only the wearer knows where the shoe pinches."
"English","One man's trash is another man's treasure."
"English","One man's meat is another's poison."
"English","One man's meat is another man's poison."
"English","One man's loss is another man's gain."
"English","One half of the world does not know how the other half lives."
"English","One good turn deserves another."
"English","One funeral makes many."
"English","One of these days is none of these days."
"English","Keep a thing seven years and you will always find a use for it."
"English","Kindness brings happiness."
"English","Kindle not a fire that you cannot extinguish."
"English","Kill two birds with one stone."
"English","Kill not the goose that lays the golden eggs."
"English","Kill not the goose that laid the golden egg."
"English","Keep no more cats than catch mice."
"English","Jack of all trades, master of none."
"English","Keep counsel of thyself first."
"English","Kissing goes by favor."
"English","Justice delayed is justice denied."
"English","Just go with it."
"English","Just do it."
"English","Judge not, lest ye be judged."
"English","Joy was born a twin."
"English","Jove but laughs at lover's perjury."
"English","Milk the cow that standeth still."
"English","Keep counsel, thyself first."
"English","Laugh before breakfast and you'll cry before lunch."
"English","Learn weeping and thou shalt gain laughing."
"English","Learn to walk before you run."
"English","Laws catch flies but lets hornets go free."
"English","Law governs man, and reason the law."
"English","Law cannot persuade where it cannot punish."
"English","Laughter is the shortest distance between two people."
"English","Laughter is the best medicine."
"English","Kisses are keys."
"English","Laugh till you cry, sorrow till you die."
"English","Kisses that are easily obtained are easily forgotten."
"English","Late children are early orphans."
"English","Last ship, best ship."
"English","Knowledge is power."
"English","Knock on wood."
"English","Knock and the door will be opened unto you."
"English","Kissing goes by favour."
"English","Jack is as good as his master."
"English","Laugh, and the world laughs with you; weep, and you weep alone."
"English","It never rains, but it pours."
"English","It was probably a waste of time anyway."
"English","It takes two to tango."
"English","It takes two to make a quarrel."
"English","It takes two to lie, one to lie and one to listen."
"English","It takes two blows to make a battle."
"English","It takes great wisdom to play the fool."
"English","Jam tomorrow and jam yesterday, but never jam today."
"English","It pays to pay attention."
"English","It's a long lane that has no turning."
"English","It isn't a fit night out for man nor beast."
"English","It is the quiet pigs that eat the meal."
"English","It is the last straw that breaks the camel's back."
"English","It is sin to steal a pin."
"English","It is pride, not nature, that craves much."
"English","It is not work that kills, but worry."
"English","It is not the beard that makes the philosopher."
"English","It takes all sorts to make a world."
"English","It's never too late to mend."
"English","Jack a dull boy."
"English","It's too late to shut the stable-door after the horse has bolted."
"English","It's the squeaky wheel that gets the grease."
"English","It's the little things in life that count."
"English","It's the empty can that makes the most noise."
"English","It's the early bird that gets the worm."
"English","It's often a person's mouth broke their nose."
"English","It will be all the same in a hundred years."
"English","It's no use crying over spilt milk."
"English","It's a good horse that never stumbles."
"English","It's good to have some friends both in heaven and hell."
"English","It's easy to be wise after the event."
"English","It's better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all."
"English","It's better to give than to receive."
"English","It's an ill wind that blows no good."
"English","It's an ill bird that fouls its own nest."
"English","Learning makes people fit company for themselves."
"English","It's not over till it's over."
"English","Love your neighbor, yet pull not down your hedge."
"English","Make not the door wider than the house."
"English","Make love not war."
"English","Make love like war."
"English","Make hay while the sun shines."
"English","Luck is the idol of the idle."
"English","Luck has but a slender anchorage."
"English","Learning makes a good man better and a bad man worse."
"English","Love your neighbour, yet pull not down your hedge."
"English","Make yourself all honey and the flies will devour you."
"English","Love makes a good eye squint."
"English","Love lives in cottages as well as in court."
"English","Love laughs at locksmiths."
"English","Love is full of busy fear."
"English","Love is blind."
"English","Loose lips sink ships."
"English","Look before you leap."
"English","Luck has a slender anchorage."
"English","Many are called but few are chosen."
"English","Measure twice, cut once."
"English","May as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb."
"English","Master your passions or your passions will master you."
"English","Marry in lent, and you'll learn to repent."
"English","Marry in haste repent at leisure."
"English","Many things are lost for want of asking."
"English","Many hands make light work."
"English","Make not the sauce till you have caught the fish."
"English","Many can pack the cards that cannot play."
"English","Make not your sail too big for your ballast."
"English","Many a true word is spoken in jest."
"English","Many a mickle makes a muckle."
"English","Manners maketh man."
"English","Man with four balls can't walk."
"English","Man cannot live by bread alone."
"English","Making a rod for your own back."
"English","Long absent, soon forgotten."
"English","Many drops make a shower."
"English","Let him make use of instinct who cannot make use of reason."
"English","Look after the pennies and the pounds will look after themselves."
"English","Life begins at forty."
"English","Life and misery began together."
"English","Lie down with dogs, wake up with fleas."
"English","Let's cross that bridge when we come to it."
"English","Let well alone."
"English","Let the buyer beware."
"English","Life liveth not in living, but in liking."
"English","Let him who is without sin cast the first stone."
"English","Life's a bitch and then you marry one."
"English","Let every man praise the bridge he goes over."
"English","Length begets loathing."
"English","Lend your money and lose your friend."
"English","Leave a great talker in the middle of the street."
"English","Least said, soonest mended."
"English","Least said is soonest mended."
"English","Procrastination is the thief of time."
"English","Let sleeping dogs lie."
"English","Listen to the sound of the river and you will get a trout."
"English","Learning makes a man fit company for himself as well as for others."
"English","Live with your friend as if he might become your enemy."
"English","Live and let live."
"English","Live and let die."
"English","Little things please little minds."
"English","Little strokes fell great oaks."
"English","Little pitchers have big ears."
"English","Life is just a bowl of cherries."
"English","Little by little and bit by bit."
"English","Long fingers count out money."
"English","Likeness is the mother of love."
"English","Like water off a duck's back."
"English","Like lavender, grow sweeter as you grow older."
"English","Like father, like son."
"English","Like cures like."
"English","Lightning never strikes twice in the same place."
"English","Life's a bleach and then you dye."
"English","Little enemies and little wounds must not be despised."
"English","Where god builds a church, the devil will build a chapel."
"English","While the cat is away, the mice will play."
"English","Where's there's muck, there's money."
"English","Where your will is ready your feet are light."
"English","Where there's a will, there's a way."
"English","Where there is peace, god is."
"English","Where one door shuts, another opens."
"English","When the going gets tough, the tough get going."
"English","Where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise."
"English","While two dogs are fighting for a bone, a third runs away with it."
"English","Where every man is master the world goes to wreck."
"English","When your only tool is a hammer, every problem looks like a nail."
"English","When you live next to the cemetery, you cannot weep for everyone."
"English","When you hear hoofbeats, think horses, not zebras."
"English","When two agree in their desire, One sparke will set them both on fire."
"English","When the wine is in, the wit is out."
"English","The fall of a leaf is a whisper to the living."
"English","Where old age is evil, youth can learn no good."
"English","Whom the gods love die young."
"English","Winter's thunder is summer's wonder."
"English","Winners never cheat and cheaters never win."
"English","Wink at small faults unless you can cast the first stone."
"English","Wine sets an edge to wit."
"English","Wide ears and short tongue are the best."
"English","Why worry? If you worry - you die. If you don't worry - you'll still die. So why worry?"
"English","Why pay for the cow when the milk is free?"
"English","While the doctors consult, the patient dies."
"English","Whom we love best, to them we can say the least."
"English","While there's life, there's hope."
"English","Who spits against the wind, it falls in his face."
"English","Who keeps company with the wolves, will learn to howl."
"English","Who is so deaf or so blind as he that willfully will neither hear nor see?"
"English","Who goes a beast to Rome, a beast returns."
"English","Who eats his cock alone must saddle his horse alone."
"English","Whiskey on beer, never fear. Beer on whiskey, mighty risky."
"English","When the cat's away, the mice will play."
"English","Why have a dog and bark yourself?"
"English","The fool wanders, the wise man travels."
"English","The greatest barkers bite not sorest."
"English","The greater the truth, the greater the libel."
"English","The greater the sinner, the greater the saint."
"English","The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence."
"English","The golden age never was the present age."
"English","The going gets tough, the tough get going."
"English","When the sword of rebellion is drawn, the sheath should be thrown away."
"English","The game isn't worth the candle."
"English","The hardest step is over the threshold."
"English","The fish will soon be caught that nibbles at every bait."
"English","The first year let your house to your enemy; the second to your friend; the third live in it yourself."
"English","The first step to health is to know that we are sick."
"English","The first step is usually the hardest."
"English","The first faults are theirs that commit them, the second theirs that permit them."
"English","The fingers have got pretty close to the thumb."
"English","Pride costs us more than hunger, thirst, and cold."
"English","The generous man pays for nothing so much as what is given him."
"English","The last straw breaks the camel's back."
"English","When the cat is away, the mice will play."
"English","When the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch."
"English","The more furrows the more corn."
"English","The more acquaintance, the more danger."
"English","The mob has many heads but no brains."
"English","The measure of our sacrifice is the measure of our love."
"English","The man in boots does not know the man in shoes."
"English","The hand that gives gathers."
"English","The leopard cannot change its spots."
"English","The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world."
"English","The last drop makes the cup run over."
"English","The last benefit is most remembered."
"English","The key to all action lies in belief."
"English","The italians are wise before the deed; the germans in the deed; the french after the deed."
"English","The heaviest baggage for a traveler is an empty wallet."
"English","The head and feet keep warm, the rest will take no harm."
"English","Witches and harlots come out at night."
"English","The leopard does not change his spots."
"English","You have to break a few eggs to make an omelette."
"English","You must look where it is not as well as where it is."
"English","You may poke a man's fire after you've known him for seven years."
"English","You may find your worst enemy or best friend in yourself."
"English","You may find your best friend or your worst enemy in yourself."
"English","You may find the worst enemy or best friend in yourself."
"English","You lose some... and you win some... and some you don't even bother to play."
"English","Wise men make proverbs but fools repeat them."
"English","You have to crawl before you can walk."
"English","You need to bait the hook to catch the fish."
"English","You get what you pay for."
"English","You don't get something for nothing."
"English","You cannot teach an old dog new tricks."
"English","You cannot run with the hare and hunt with the hounds."
"English","You cannot make people honest by an act of parliament."
"English","You cannot make an omelette without breaking eggs."
"English","You cannot lose what you never had."
"English","You have to take the good with the bad."
"English","You will not rise to the occasion, you will default to the level of your training."
"English","Always to court and never to wed is the happiest life that ever was led."
"English","Zeal without knowledge is like fire without light."
"English","Youth will be served."
"English","Young people don't know what age is, and old people forget what youth was."
"English","Young men's knocks old men feel."
"English","Young men may die, old men must."
"English","You'll beguile none but those that trust you."
"English","You must lose a fly to catch a trout."
"English","You win a few, you lose a few."
"English","You must not expect old heads upon young shoulders."
"English","You should lie down with the lamb and rise with the lark."
"English","You scratch my back and I'll scratch yours."
"English","You never miss the water till the well runs dry."
"English","You never miss a slice from a cut loaf."
"English","You never know what you've got till it's gone."
"English","You never know what you can do till you try."
"English","You can't win them all.You win a few, you lose a few."
"English","You'll always miss 100% of the [basketball] shots you don't take."
"English","Work expands so as to fill the time available."
"English","You cannot have your cake and eat it."
"English","You can have no more of a cat than her skin."
"English","You can catch more flies with honey than with vinegar."
"English","You are responsible for you."
"English","Years know more than books."
"English","Year of snow fruit will grow."
"English","Write with the learned, but speak with the vulgar."
"English","You can lead a horse to water, but you can't make him drink."
"English","Worrying is like sitting in a rocking chair. It gives you something to do but it doesn't get you anywhere."
"English","You can take a horse to the water, but you can't make him drink."
"English","Women in mischief are wiser than men."
"English","Women are like wasps in their anger."
"English","Woe to the house where there is no chiding."
"English","Without sleep, no health."
"English","Without danger we cannot get beyond danger."
"English","With one child you may walk; with two you may ride; when you have three, at home you must bide."
"English","The fairer the hostess the fouler the reckoning."
"English","Write down the advice of him who loves you, though you like it not at the present."
"English","You can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear."
"English","Wit is more often a shield than a lance."
"English","You can't tell a book by its cover."
"English","You can't teach grandpa to suck eggs."
"English","You can't teach grandma to suck eggs."
"English","You can't teach an old dog new tricks."
"English","You can't squeeze blood from a stone."
"English","You can't run with the hare and hunt with the hounds."
"English","You can judge a man by the company he keeps."
"English","You can't make an omelette without breaking eggs."
"English","You cannot get blood from a stone."
"English","You can't judge a book by its cover."
"English","You can't have your cake and eat it too."
"English","You can't have it both ways."
"English","You can't grease a ""pig"" so many times that he can't be greased one more time."
"English","You can't get blood out of a turnip."
"English","You can't free a fish from water."
"English","You can't escape your destiny."
"English","You can't milk a cow with your hands in your pants."
"English","Silence means consent."
"English","Some have been thought brave because they were afraid to run away."
"English","Some are very busy and yet do nothing."
"English","Soft fire makes sweet malt."
"English","Smile, and the world smiles with you. Cry, and you cry alone."
"English","Small cheer and great welcome make a great feast."
"English","Slop your hogs before you feed your children."
"English","Sell not virtue to purchase wealth."
"English","Six hours for a man, seven for a woman, and eight for a fool."
"English","Some men have only one book in them, others a library."
"English","Silence is golden."
"English","Short acquaintance brings repentance."
"English","Sex is like war, both are exciting but neither informative."
"English","Set out wisely at first; custom will make every virtue more easy and pleasant to you than any vice can be."
"English","Set good against evil."
"English","Set a thief to catch a thief."
"English","The fed hound never hunts."
"English","Six hours' sleep for a man, seven for a woman and eight for a fool."
"English","Spare the rod and spoil the child."
"English","Sticks and stones will break my bones, but names will never hurt me."
"English","Sticks and stones may break my bones, but names will break my spirit."
"English","Starve a fever, feed a cold."
"English","Spring is when you feel like whistling even with a shoe full of slush."
"English","Spring has come when you can put your foot on three daisies."
"English","Spread the table and contention will cease."
"English","Speech is silver, but silence is golden."
"English","Some man are wise, and some are otherwise."
"English","Speak not of my debts unless you mean to pay them."
"English","Some men go through a forest and see no firewood."
"English","Sorrow remembered sweetens present joy."
"English","Sorrow is always dry."
"English","Sorrow for a husband is like a pain in the elbow, sharp and short."
"English","Soon ripe, soon rotten."
"English","Sometimes you must be cruel to be kind."
"English","Sometimes people who live in glass houses throw stones because their windows are painted."
"English","Self-preservation is the first law of nature."
"English","Speaking of the devil."
"English","Raining cats and dogs."
"English","Repeating a lie, doesn't make that lie true."
"English","Red sky at night: shepherd's delight. Red sky in the morning: shepherd's warning."
"English","Red sky at night, shepherd's delight; red sky in the morning, shepherd's warning."
"English","Raw leather will stretch."
"English","Raw cucumber makes the churchyards prosperous."
"English","Rats desert a sinking ship."
"English","Send your charity abroad wrapped in blankets."
"English","Raise no more devils than you can lay."
"English","Riches serve a wise man but command a fool."
"English","Rain before seven; clear before eleven."
"English","Put not thy hand between the bark and the tree."
"English","Proverbs are the children of experience."
"English","Prosperity gets followers, but adversity distinguishes them."
"English","Prosperity discovers vices, and adversity virtue."
"English","Proportion your expenses to what you have, not what you expect."
"English","Promise is debt."
"English","Rather weigh the will of the speaker, than the worth of the words."
"English","Sauce for the goose, is sauce for the gander."
"English","Self-praise is no praise at all."
"English","Self-praise is nno praise at all."
"English","Seek and ye shall find."
"English","Seeing is believing."
"English","See no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil."
"English","See a pin and pick it up, all the day you'll have good luck."
"English","Scratch my back and i will scratch yours."
"English","Reputation is commonly measured by the acre."
"English","Save something for the man that rides the white horse."
"English","Revenge is a dish that should be eaten cold."
"English","Salvage Something From Every Setback."
"English","Rules are made to be broken."
"English","Romeo must die in order to save the love."
"English","Rome wasn't built in one day."
"English","Rome wasn't built in a day."
"English","Rome was not built in a day."
"English","Still waters run deep."
"English","Scratch a Russian and you will find a Tartar."
"English","The citizen is at his business before the sun rises."
"English","The darkest hour comes just before the dawn."
"English","The customer is always right."
"English","The cure is worse than the disease."
"English","The crow went traveling abroad and came back just as black."
"English","The cow that's first up gets the first of the dew."
"English","The covetous spends more than the liberal."
"English","Still he fisheth that catcheth one."
"English","The coat makes the man."
"English","The darkest place is under the candlestick."
"English","The charitable give out the door and god puts in at the window."
"English","The chain is no stronger than its weakest link."
"English","The cat in gloves catches no mice."
"English","The cat has nine lives: three for playing, three for straying, three for staying."
"English","The cat has nine lives: three for playing, three for straying, three for staying."
"English","The camel asking for horns lost also his ears."
"English","The calmest husbands make the stormiest wives."
"English","The course of true love never did run smooth."
"English","The eagle does not catch flies."
"English","The face is no index to the heart."
"English","The eyes have one language everywhere."
"English","The eyes are the window of the soul."
"English","The exception proves the rule."
"English","The English are a nation of shopkeepers."
"English","The end justifies the means."
"English","The early bird gets the worm."
"English","The darkest hour is just before dawn."
"English","The early bird catches the worm."
"English","The darkest hour is that before the dawn."
"English","The dog that fetches will carry."
"English","The difficult is done at once, the impossible takes a little longer."
"English","The difference is wide that the sheets will not decide."
"English","The Devil's children have the Devil's luck."
"English","The devil finds work for idle hands."
"English","The devil dances in empty pockets."
"English","The bird is known by his note, the man by his words."
"English","The early bird gets the worm, but the second mouse gets the cheese."
"English","Sweep the house with a broom in may and you'll sweep the luck of the house away."
"English","The brains of a fox will be of little service if you play with the paw of a lion."
"English","Talk of the devil and he is sure to appear."
"English","Talk of the devil - and the devil appears."
"English","Talk is cheap."
"English","Take heed you do not find what you do not seek."
"English","Take heed of enemies reconciled, and of meat twice boiled."
"English","Take care of your pennies and your pounds will take care of your heirs and barristers."
"English","Talking a mile a minute."
"English","Take a dog for a companion and a stick in your hand."
"English","Tell the truth and shame the devil."
"English","Sweep in front of your own door."
"English","Success makes a fool seem wise."
"English","Success makes a fool seem wise."
"English","Stupidity won't kill you, but it can make you sweat."
"English","Strike while the iron is hot."
"English","Stolen fruit is sweet."
"English","Never judge the book by it's cover."
"English","Take a hair of the dog that has bitten you."
"English","The bait hides the hook."
"English","Still waters are the deepest."
"English","The bigger they are, the harder they fall."
"English","The best way to see divine light is to put out your own candle."
"English","The best throw of the dice is to throw them away."
"English","The best things in life are free."
"English","The best things come in small packages."
"English","The best laid plans of mice and men often go awry."
"English","Talk the hind legs off a donkey."
"English","The beauty of things lies in the mind that contemplates it."
"English","The brains don't like in the beard."
"English","The anvil fears no blows."
"English","The anger is not warrantable that has seen two suns."
"English","The afterthought is good for nought, except it be to catch blind horses with."
"English","The absent are always in the wrong."
"English","That which shall be, shall be."
"English","That which does not kill you, makes you stronger."
"English","That which covers thee discovers thee."
"English","The belly teaches all arts."
"English","Don't burn your bridges before they're crossed."
"English","Don't do all you can, spend all you have, believe all you hear, or tell all you know."
"English","Don't dig your grave with your own knife and fork."
"English","Don't cut off your nose to spite your face."
"English","Don't cry over spilt milk."
"English","Don't cross the bridge till you come to it."
"English","Don't cross a bridge until you come to it."
"English","Do not meet troubles half-way."
"English","Don't change horses in mid stream."
"English","Don't go near the water until you learn how to swim."
"English","Don't bite the hand that feeds you."
"English","Doctors make the worst patients."
"English","Do when ye may, or suffer ye the nay, in love 'tis the way."
"English","Do unto others as you would they should do unto you."
"English","Do the thing you fear, the death of fear is certain."
"English","Do or die."
"English","Fear lends wings."
"English","Don't count your chickens before they are hatched."
"English","Don't meet trouble halfway."
"English","Don't throw out the baby with the bathwater."
"English","Don't think to hunt two hares with one hound."
"English","Don't spoil the ship for a halfpenny of tar."
"English","Don't spit into the wind."
"English","Don't shut the barn door after the horse is stolen."
"English","Don't reckon with your host."
"English","Don't put the cart before the horse."
"English","Don't drown the man who taught you to swim."
"English","Don't mend what ain't broken."
"English","Don't fall before you're pushed."
"English","Don't make a mountain out of a molehill."
"English","Don't look a gift horse in the mouth."
"English","Don't lock the stable door after the horse is stolen."
"English","Don't judge a book by its cover."
"English","Don't have too many irons in the fire."
"English","Don't halt before you are lame."
"English","Do not make me kiss and you will not make me sin."
"English","Don't put all your eggs in one basket."
"English","Death always comes too early or too late."
"English","Despair doubles our strength."
"English","Desire is nourished by delay."
"English","Deeds are fruits, words are leaves."
"English","Death pays all debts."
"English","Death keeps no calendar."
"English","Death is a shadow that always follows the body."
"English","Do not triumph before the victory."
"English","Death closes all doors."
"English","Desperate diseases must have desperate remedies."
"English","Dead news, like dead love, has no phoenix in its ashes."
"English","Dead men tell no tale."
"English","Danger is next neighbor to security."
"English","Danger and delight grow on one stalk."
"English","Damned if you do, damned if you don't."
"English","Cut your coat according to your cloth."
"English","Custom is the guide of the ignorant."
"English","Death devours lambs as well as sheep."
"English","Diseases are the interest of pleasures."
"English","Do not halloo until you are out of the wood."
"English","Do not fall before you are pushed."
"English","Do not dwell in a city where a horse does not neigh nor a dog bark."
"English","Do not be in a hurry to tie what you cannot untie."
"English","Do not all you can; spend not all you have; believe not all you hear; and tell not all you know."
"English","Do as you would be done by."
"English","Do as most men do and men will speak well of thee."
"English","Despair gives courage to a coward."
"English","Diseases come on horseback, but steal away on foot."
"English","Desperate cuts must have desperate cures."
"English","Disease is soon shaken By physic soon taken."
"English","Discretion is the better part of valour."
"English","Discretion in speech is more important than eloquence."
"English","Different strokes for different folks."
"English","Different sores must have different salves."
"English","Desperate times call for desperate measures."
"English","Don't use your hairdryer in the shower, you prat."
"English","Do as I say, not as I do."
"English","Everyone is weary: the poor in seeking, the rich in keeping, the good in learning."
"English","Evildoers are evil dreaders."
"English","Evil comes to us by ells and goes away by inches."
"English","Evil be to him who thinks it."
"English","Everything's eventual."
"English","Everything has its time."
"English","Everything comes to him who waits."
"English","Don't trudge mud into the house of love."
"English","Everyone must row with the oars they have."
"English","Experience is the mother of knowledge."
"English","Every why has a wherefore."
"English","Every rule has its exception."
"English","Every path has its puddle."
"English","Every man is the architect of his own fortune."
"English","Every man has his price."
"English","Every man has a price."
"English","Every garden may have some weeds."
"English","Everyone puts his fault on the times."
"English","Faith sees by the ears."
"English","Favour will surely perish as life."
"English","Faults are thick where love is thin."
"English","Far from court, far from care."
"English","Far fowls have fair feathers."
"English","Fancy passes beauty."
"English","Familiarity breeds contempt."
"English","Fame is a magnifying glass."
"English","Examine well the counsel that favours your desire."
"English","Faith will move mountains."
"English","Experience is the mistress of fools."
"English","Fair exchange is no robbery."
"English","Faint heart never won fair lady."
"English","Faint heart ne'er won fair lady."
"English","Facts are stubborn things."
"English","Fact is stranger than fiction."
"English","Experience without learning is better than learning without experience."
"English","Every dog has its day."
"English","Faith without works is dead."
"English","Early to rise early to bed makes a man socialy dead."
"English","Every dog is entitled to one bite."
"English","Eat, drink, be merry, for tomorrow we die."
"English","Eat when you're hungry, and drink when you're dry."
"English","Eat to live, don't live to eat."
"English","Eat not cherries with the great."
"English","Eat leeks in march, garlic in may, all the rest of the year the doctors may play."
"English","Easy come, easy go."
"English","Education is a subversive activity."
"English","Earth produces all things and receives all again."
"English","Elbow grease is the best polish."
"English","Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise."
"English","Early bird gets the worm."
"English","Eagles fly alone."
"English","Eagles don't catch flies."
"English","Each cross has its own inscription."
"English","Doubt is the beginning, not the end, of wisdom."
"English","Curiosity killed the cat. Satisfaction brought it back, that's why the cat has nine lives."
"English","East or West, home is best."
"English","Even a worm will turn."
"English","Don't trust the Greek bearing gifts."
"English","Every dog has his day."
"English","Every disease will have its course."
"English","Every day is a new beginning."
"English","Every coin has two sides."
"English","Every cloud has a silver lining."
"English","Every bean hath its black."
"English","Education begins a gentleman, conversation completes him."
"English","Ever since we wear clothes, we know not each other."
"English","Every dog hath its day."
"English","Even a broken clock is right twice a day."
"English","Even a blind squirrel finds a nut once in a while."
"English","Eternity has no grey hairs."
"English","Envy shoots at others and wounds itself."
"English","Enjoy your little while the fool is seeking for more."
"English","Empty vessels make the most sound."
"English","Empty barrels make the most sound."
"English","Every ass loves to hear himself bray."
"English","Barking dogs seldom bite."
"English","Beauty is only skin deep, but ugly goes straight to the bone."
"English","Beauty is in the eye of the beholder."
"English","Beauty draws more than oxen."
"English","Beauty and honesty seldom agree."
"English","Be not deceived with the first appearance of things, for show is not substance."
"English","Be just before you're generous."
"English","Better never to begin than never to make an end."
"English","Base terms are bellows to a slackening fire."
"English","Beauty may open doors but only virtue enters."
"English","Attack is the best form of defence."
"English","At the end of the game the king and the pawn go into the same bag."
"English","Ask no questions and hear no lies."
"English","Ask me no questions, I'll tell you no lies."
"English","Ask God for what man can give, and you may get it."
"English","Ask and you shall receive."
"English","Ask a silly question and you get a silly answer."
"English","Be careful what you wish for, you might just get it."
"English","Better a little chiding than a good deal of heartache."
"English","Cursing the weather is never good farming."
"English","Better go to bed supperless than to rise in debt."
"English","Better face a danger once than be always in fear."
"English","Better die with honour than live with shame."
"English","Better bend the back than bruise the forehead."
"English","Better be safe than sorry."
"English","Better bad than without."
"English","Beauty is only skin deep."
"English","Better a snotty child than his nose wiped off."
"English","Beauty may have fair leaves, yet bitter fruit."
"English","Better a finger off than one wagging."
"English","Beggars can't be choosers."
"English","Bees that have honey in their mouths have stings in their tails."
"English","Beer before wine, you'll feel fine. Wine before beer, you'll feel queer."
"English","Beer before liquor, you'll never be sicker, but liquor before beer and you're in the clear."
"English","Beauty provoketh thieves sooner than gold."
"English","As you make your bed, so you must lie in it."
"English","Better an open enemy than a false friend."
"English","An empty belly hears nobody."
"English","As you sow, so you reap."
"English","An old wrinkle never wears out."
"English","An old man is a bed full of bones."
"English","An illiterate king is a crowned ass."
"English","An idle mind is the devil's workshop."
"English","An idle brain is the devil's workshop."
"English","An hour may destroy what an age was building."
"English","An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure."
"English","An enterprizing foole needs little wit."
"English","An oven and mill are nurseries of news."
"English","An empty barrel makes the most noise."
"English","An empty bag cannot stand upright."
"English","An artist lives everywhere."
"English","An arrow shot upright falls on the shooter's head."
"English","An apple never falls far from the tree."
"English","An apple a day keeps the doctor away."
"English","Always sample a maidens charms before the wedding."
"English","An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth."
"English","Anger is shortlived in a good man."
"English","Better safe than sorry."
"English","As love thinks no evil, so envy speaks no good."
"English","As a man lives, so shall he die."
"English","April showers bring May flowers."
"English","April showers bring forth May flowers."
"English","Appearances can be deceiving."
"English","Any port in a storm."
"English","An open door may tempt a saint."
"English","Anger punishes itself."
"English","As you sow, so shall you reap."
"English","Anger is often more hurtful than the injury that caused it."
"English","Anger is a short madness."
"English","Anger edges valor."
"English","Anger dies quickly with a good man."
"English","Anger and haste hinder good counsel."
"English","And he repents in thorns that sleeps in beds of roses."
"English","An unfortunate man would be drowned in a tea-cup."
"English","Another man's poison is not necessarily yours."
"English","Charity bread has hard crusts."
"English","Choose a wife rather by your ear than by your eye."
"English","Children suck the mother when they are young and the father when they are old."
"English","Children are poor men's riches."
"English","Children are certain cares, but uncertain comforts."
"English","Children and fools must not play with edged tools."
"English","Chickens have come home to roost."
"English","Better late than never."
"English","Cheat me in the price, but not in the goods."
"English","Clogs to clogs in three generations."
"English","Character is easier kept than recovered."
"English","It is ill prizing of green barley."
"English","Chains of gold are stronger than chains of iron."
"English","Never look a gift horse in the mouth."
"English","Cast not your pearls before swine."
"English","Caesar's wife must be above suspicion."
"English","By learning you will teach; by teaching you will learn."
"English","Cheese and money should always sleep together one night."
"English","Common sense ain't common."
"English","Chance favors the prepared mind."
"English","Crumb not your bread before you taste your porridge."
"English","Cross the stream where it is the shallowest."
"English","Crooked logs make straight fires."
"English","Craftiness must have clothes, but truth loves to go naked."
"English","Cowards die many times, but a brave man only dies once."
"English","Conscience cannot be compelled."
"English","Cider on beer, never fear; beer upon cider, makes a bad rider."
"English","Comparisons are odious."
"English","Clean as God's fingertips."
"English","Cold pudding settles love."
"English","Cold hands, warm heart."
"English","Cobbler, stick to thy last."
"English","Clothes make the man."
"English","Close only counts in horseshoes and hand-grenades."
"English","Close but no cigar."
"English","Butter is gold in the morning, silver at noon, lead at night."
"English","Confession is the first step to repentance."
"English","Beware beginnings."
"English","Buying and selling is but winning and losing."
"English","Bitter pills may have blessed effects."
"English","Biting and scratching is Scots folk's wooing."
"English","Birds of a feather flock together."
"English","Big thunder, little rain."
"English","Big boast, small roast."
"English","Beware of the cat that licks from the front but claws from behind."
"English","Blessed is he who expects nothing, for he shall never be disappointed."
"English","Beware of a man of one book."
"English","Blest is the bride the sun shines on."
"English","Better wed over the mixen than over the moor."
"English","Better wear out shoes than sheets."
"English","Better to say nothing, than to say something not to the purpose."
"English","Better to kiss a knave than be troubled with him."
"English","Better to be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt."
"English","Better to be envied than pitied."
"English","Better the devil you know than the devil you don't know."
"English","Beware of Greeks bearing gifts."
"English","Brain is better than brawn."
"English","Curses, like chickens, come home to roost."
"English","But an unwatched kettle over boils."
"English","Business first, pleasure after."
"English","Burn not your house to scare away the mice."
"English","Brevity is the soul of wit."
"English","Breed up a crowand he will tear out your eyes."
"English","Breakfast like a king, lunch like a prince, dine like a pauper."
"English","Black will take no other hue."
"English","Bread is the staff of life, but beer's life itself."
"English","Buy in the cheapest market and sell in the dearest."
"English","Boys will be boys."
"English","Boldness in business is the first, second and third thing."
"English","Blood will out."
"English","Blood is thicker than water."
"English","Blind men should not judge of colours."
"English","Blind men can judge no colours."
"English","Blind is the bookless man."
"English","Bread is the staff of life."
"English","Home is where the heart is."
"English","Hope is life."
"English","Hope for the best, expect the worst."
"English","Hope for the best, but prepare for the worst."
"English","Honour buys no beef."
"English","Honor follows those who flee from it."
"English","Honey catches more flies than vinegar."
"English","Heaven protects children, sailors and drunken men."
"English","Home is where you hang your hat."
"English","Hunger drives the wolf out of the woods."
"English","Home is home, though it be never so homely."
"English","History repeats itself."
"English","History never repeats itself, but it does rhyme."
"English","His fore feet though you sever, his grip he'll make good."
"English","His bark is worse than his bite."
"English","Help a lame dog over a stile."
"English","He that touched pitch will be defiled."
"English","Honesty is the best policy."
"English","If he deceives me once, shame on him; if he deceives me twice, shame on me."
"English","If something is worth doing, then it's worth doing right."
"English","If something can go wrong, it will."
"English","If one sheep leaps over the ditch all the rest will follow."
"English","If mama ain't happy, ain't nobody happy."
"English","If it's not one thing it's another."
"English","If it were not for the belly, the back might wear gold."
"English","If it jams, force it. If it breaks, it probably needed fixing anyway."
"English","However far a man goes, he must start from his own door."
"English","If ignorance is bliss, why aren't more people happy?"
"English","Human blood is all of a color."
"English","If every bird take back its own feathers, you'll be naked."
"English","If at first you don't succeed, try, try again."
"English","If a job is worth doing, it's worth doing well."
"English","Hunger makes good kitchen."
"English","Hunger is the best spice."
"English","Hunger is the best sauce."
"English","Heaven hath no rage like love to hatred turned, Nor Hell a fury like a woman scorned."
"English","If it isn't broke, don't fix it."
"English","He that's a wise man by day is no fool by night."
"English","He who has no charity, deserves no mercy."
"English","He who has daughters is always a shepherd."
"English","He who has carried the calf will be able by and by to carry the ox."
"English","He who has an art has everywhere a part."
"English","He who fights and runs away, may live to fight another day."
"English","He who eats until he is ill must fast until he is well."
"English","Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned."
"English","He who builds by the roadside has many masters."
"English","He who killeth the lion when absent feareth a mouse when present."
"English","He that would the daughter win Must with the mother first begin."
"English","He that will to Cupar maun to Cupar."
"English","He that will thrive must first ask his wife."
"English","He that will take the bird must not scare it."
"English","He that will steal an egg will steal an ox."
"English","He that will have a cake out of the wheat must tarry the grinding."
"English","He that walketh with the virtuous is one of them."
"English","He who can does, he who cannot, teaches."
"English","He who pays the piper calls the tune."
"English","Health is better than wealth."
"English","He's all hat and no cattle."
"English","He who would rule must hear and be deaf, see and be blind."
"English","He who would climb the ladder must begin at the bottom."
"English","He who treats himself has a fool for a patient."
"English","He who sups with the devil has need of a long spoon."
"English","He who sleeps forgets his hunger."
"English","He who hesitates is lost."
"English","He who pays the piper may call the tune."
"English","He who is shipwrecked the second time cannot lay the blame on Neptune."
"English","He who lives by the sword shall die by the sword."
"English","He who lives by the sword dies by the sword."
"English","He who lives according to nature will never be poor, and he who lives according to opinion will never be rich."
"English","He who laughs last, laughs longest."
"English","He who laughs last laughs best."
"English","He who last, lasts, laughs last."
"English","If the cap fits, wear it."
"English","He who says what he likes will hear what he does not like."
"English","In for a penny, in for a pound."
"English","Is there no mean but fast or feast?"
"English","Interpretation: If you are going to do something, do it right."
"English","Innocent actions carry their warrant with them."
"English","Injuries we write in marble, kindnesses in dust."
"English","In times of prosperity friends will be plenty, In times of adversity, not one in twenty."
"English","In the morning be first up, and in the evening last to go to bed, for they that sleep catch no fish."
"English","If the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch."
"English","In the end, a man's motives are second to his accomplishments."
"English","It is a good wind that blows a man to the wine."
"English","In every country dogs bite."
"English","In every beginning, think of the end."
"English","In a cat's eyes, all things belong to cats."
"English","In a cat's eye, all things belong to cats."
"English","In a calm sea, every man is a pilot."
"English","Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery."
"English","Ill luck is good for something."
"English","In the land of the blind, the one-eyed man is king."
"English","It is better to conceal one's knowledge than to reveal one's ignorance."
"English","Cats hide their claws."
"English","Feed a cold and starve a fever."
"English","It is ill fishing before the net."
"English","It is hard to pay for porridge that has been eaten."
"English","It is folly to sing twice to a deaf man."
"English","It is easy to be wise after the event."
"English","It is better to murder during time of plague."
"English","It ain't over till the fat lady sings."
"English","It is better to give than to receive."
"English","It is a bold mouse that nestles in the cat's ear."
"English","It is better to begin in the evening than not at all."
"English","It is better to be born lucky than rich."
"English","It is best to be on the safe side."
"English","It is at courts as it is in ponds; some fish, some frogs."
"English","It is an equal failing to trust everybody, and to trust nobody."
"English","It is a sin against hospitality to open the doors and shut up the countenance."
"English","If you would be happy for a week, take a wife; if you would be happy for a month, kill a pig; but if you would be happy all your life, plant a garden."
"English","It is better to lose health like a spendthrift than to hoard it like a miser."
"English","If wishes were horses, beggars might ride."
"English","Ignorance is the mother of superstition."
"English","If you can't take the heat, get out of the kitchen."
"English","If you can't stand the heat get out of the kitchen."
"English","If you can't join them, beat them."
"English","If you can't beat them, join them."
"English","If you can't be good, be careful."
"English","If you buy cheaply, you pay dearly."
"English","If you don't like the heat, get out of the kitchen."
"English","If wishes were horses, then beggers would ride, but you better not think about going outside."
"English","If you don't love yourself with passion, you'll love others with it. Passion is conserved."
"English","If thou seest ought amiss, mend it in thyself."
"English","If thou hast not a capon, feed on an onion."
"English","If thou canst not see the bottom, wade not."
"English","If the shoe fits, wear it."
"English","If the old dog barks, he gives counsel."
"English","If the mountain will not come to Mahomet, Mahomet must go to the mountain."
"English","Idle brains are the devil's workshop."
"English","If words could only speak, they'd mean even less."
"English","If you swear you will catch no fish."
"English","If the brain sows not corn, it plants thistles."
"English","If you were born to be shot, you'll never be hung."
"English","If you want to be loved, be loveable."
"English","If you want to be happy for a year, plant a garden; if you want to be happy for life, plant a tree."
"English","If you want peace, you must prepare for war."
"English","If you want peace, prepare for war."
"English","If you want a thing done, go. If not, send. The shortest answer is doing."
"English","If you cannot bite, never show your teeth."
"English","If you trust before you try, you may repent before you die."
"English","If you're in a hole, stop digging."
"English","If you run after two hares you will catch neither."
"English","If you rock the cradle empty, then you shall have babies plenty."
"English","If you play with fire you get burnt."
"English","If you make songs about yourself, you can't blame other people for singing them."
"English","If you keep your mouth shut, you won't put your foot in it."
"English","If you have no enemies it is a sign fortune has forgot you."
"English","If you dont have anything nice to say, dont say anything at all."
"English","If you want a thing done well, do it yourself."
"English","Go abroad and you'll hear news of home."
"English","Give and take is fair play."
"English","God helps them that help themselves."
"English","God help the rich, the poor can look after themselves."
"English","God help the rich man, let the poor man beg."
"English","God gives the milk but not the pail."
"English","God gives his anger by weight, but his pity without measure."
"English","God cures and the physician takes the fee."
"English","God is dead."
"English","God blesses a drunk."
"English","God looks to clean hands, not to full ones."
"English","Gnaw the bone which is fallen to thy lot."
"English","Gluttony kills more than the sword."
"English","Give the devil his due."
"English","Give neither counsel nor salt till you are asked for it."
"English","Give neither advice nor salt, until you are asked for it."
"English","Give her bells and let her fly."
"English","Green leaves and brown leaves fall from the same tree."
"English","God comes at last when we think he is furthest off."
"English","Good judgement comes from experience, and experience comes from poor judgement."
"English","Great oaks from little acorns grow."
"English","Great minds think alike, but fools seldom differ."
"English","Gray hairs are death's early blossoms."
"English","Gray hairs are death's blossoms."
"English","Grasp all, lose all."
"English","Good words cool more than cold water."
"English","Good wine needs no bush."
"English","God is better pleased with adverbs than with nouns."
"English","Good men are scarce."
"English","Give a man rope enough and he will hang himself."
"English","Good fences make good neighbours."
"English","Good eating deserveth good drinking."
"English","Good eating deserves good drinking."
"English","Good company on the road is the shortest cut."
"English","God's a good man."
"English","God promises a safe landing, but not a calm passage."
"English","God never sends mouths but he sends meat."
"English","Good to begin well, better to end well."
"English","First deserve then desire."
"English","Give credit where credit is due."
"English","He that sows trusts in god."
"English","Fools build houses and wise men live in them."
"English","If a man deceive me once, shame on him; but if he deceive me twice, shame on me."
"English","Fools and children tell the truth."
"English","Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me."
"English","Fish and visitors smell in three days."
"English","For a morning rain leave not your journey."
"English","First deserve, and then desire."
"English","For every fog in march there's a frost in may."
"English","First come, first served."
"English","Fire is love and water sorrow."
"English","Fine words butter no parsnips."
"English","Fine feathers make fine birds."
"English","Finders keepers, losers weepers."
"English","Fight fire with fire."
"English","Few are fit to be entrusted with themselves."
"English","First impressions are the most lasting."
"English","Fourty Two is the answer."
"English","Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day; teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime."
"English","Give a dog a bad name and hang him."
"English","Garbage in, garbage out."
"English","Full of courtesy, full of craft."
"English","Friends tie thier purse with a cobweb thread."
"English","Friends are like fiddle strings, they must not be screwed too tight."
"English","Friends are like centipedes, they have many legs when work needs to be done."
"English","Fools rush in where angels fear to tread."
"English","Fresh pork and new wine kill a man before his time."
"English","Fools gawp at masterpieces - wise men set out to outdo masterpieces."
"English","Foul water will quench fire."
"English","Fortune favours the brave."
"English","Forewarned is fore armed."
"English","Forced put is no choice."
"English","Forbidden fruit is the sweetest."
"English","For whom does the blind man's wife paint herself?"
"English","For want of a nail a kingdom was lost."
"English","Fretting cares make grey hairs."
"English","He that fights and runs away, lives to fight another day."
"English","Grow where you are planted."
"English","He that hath no ill fortune is troubled with good."
"English","He that hath no children doth bring them up well."
"English","He that has no fools, knaves, or beggars in his family was begot by a flash of lightning."
"English","He that has no charity deserves no mercy."
"English","He that goes barefoot must not plant thorns."
"English","He that is angry without a cause shall be pleased without amends."
"English","He that gets forgets, but he that wants thinks on."
"English","He that is at ease seeks dainties."
"English","Fools are weatherwise, and those that are weatherwise are seldom otherwise."
"English","He that endures is not overcome."
"English","It is ill jesting with sharp tools."
"English","He that does amiss may do well."
"English","He that cheateth in small things is a fool, but in great things is a rogue."
"English","He that cannot obey cannot command."
"English","He that cannot beat the horse beats the saddle."
"English","He that gives to a grateful man puts out to usury."
"English","He that lives in a glass house must not throw stones."
"English","He that seeks trouble always finds it."
"English","He that plays with cats must expect to be scratched."
"English","He that plants trees loves others besides himself."
"English","He that plants thorns must never expect to gather roses."
"English","He that marries late marries ill."
"English","He that lives too fast, goes to his grave too soon."
"English","He that is angry is seldom at ease."
"English","He that lives in hope dances to an ill tune."
"English","He that blows in the dust fills his eyes with it."
"English","He that laughs when he is alone will make sport in company."
"English","He that labours is tempted by one devil; he that is idle is tempted by a thousand."
"English","He that knows thee will never buy thee."
"English","He that knows nothing, doubts nothing."
"English","He that is too proud to ask is too good to receive."
"English","He that is once born, once must die."
"English","He that is fallen cannot help him that is down."
"English","He that lives most dies most."
"English","Happy is the country which has no history."
"English","Have not want not."
"English","Hasty climbers have sudden falls."
"English","He that serves at the altar ought to live by the altar."
"English","Haste makes waste."
"English","He that shippeth the devil must make the best of him."
"English","Hard words break no bones."
"English","He that buyeth magistracy will seek justice."
"English","Happy wife, happy life."
"English","He begins to die that quits his desires."
"English","Happy is the bride the sun shines on."
"English","Hang a thief when he's young, and he'll no' steal when he's old."
"English","Handsome is as handsome does."
"English","Half the world does not know how the other half lives."
"English","Half a loaf is better than none."
"English","Hair of the dog that bit you."
"English","Habbit is a second nature."
"English","Hard cases make bad law."
"English","He is lifeless that is faultless."
"English","He that seeks trouble never misses."
"English","He that blames would buy."
"English","He that asketh a courtesy promiseth a kindness."
"English","He that after sinning mends, recommends himself to god."
"English","He quits his place well that leaves his friend there."
"English","He preaches well that lives well."
"English","He opens the door with an ax."
"English","Have you any Spanish?"
"English","He is not wise that is not wise for himself."
"English","Hawks will not pick out hawks' eyes."
"English","He is a fool who cannot be angry; but he is a wise man who will not."
"English","He is a fool that kisseth the maid when he may kiss the mistress."
"English","He helps little that helps not himself."
"English","He hath good judgement that relieth not wholly on his own."
"English","He declares himself guilty who justifies himself before accusation."
"English","He dances well to whom fortune pipes."
"English","He that bulls the cow must keep the calf."
"English","He laughs best who laughs last."
"English","Plenty know good ale, but don't know much after that."
"English","Rain before seven; clear before eleven."
"English","Proverbs are the children of experience."
"English","Prosperity discovers vices, and adversity virtue."
"English","Proportion your expenses to what you have, not what you expect."
"English","Poor Trust is dead; Bad Pay killed him."
"English","Peace makes plenty."
"English","One funeral makes many."
"English","Raw cucumber makes the churchyards prosperous."
"English","None ever took a stone out of the temple but the dust did fly in his eyes."
"English","Some men go through a forest and see no firewood."
"English","None can guess the jewel by the casket."
"English","Of wine the middle, of oil the top, and of honey the bottom is best."
"English","Revenge is a dish that should be eaten cold."
"English","Sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander."
"English","Self-praise is no praise at all."
"English","Set out wisely at first; custom will make every virtue more easy and pleasant to you than any vice can be."
"English","Never love with all your heart, it only ends in breaking."
"English","Soft fire makes sweet malt."
"English","Let every man praise the bridge he goes over."
"English","Some men have only one book in them, others a library."
"English","Spread the table and contention will cease."
"English","Spring has come when you can put your foot on three daisies."
"English","Spring is when you feel like whistling even with a shoe full of slush."
"English","Sticks and stones will break my bones, but names will never hurt me."
"English","Still he fisheth that catcheth one."
"English","Short acquaintance brings repentance."
"English","Kissing goes by favour."
"English","If you swear you will catch no fish."
"English","In a cat's eye, all things belong to cats."
"English","In for a penny, in for a pound."
"English","In the morning be first up, and in the evening last to go to bed, for they that sleep catch no fish."
"English","In times of prosperity friends will be plenty, In times of adversity, not one in twenty."
"English","Innocent actions carry their warrant with them."
"English","It is an equal failing to trust everybody and to trust nobody."
"English","It is ill fishing before the net."
"English","It is ill prizing of green barley."
"English","Keep counsel of thyself first."
"English","Keep counsel, thyself first."
"English","Kill not the goose that lays the golden eggs."
"English","Many a true word is spoken in jest."
"English","Kissing goes by favor."
"English","Never fall out with your bread and butter."
"English","Knock on wood."
"English","Last ship, best ship."
"English","Learning makes people fit company for themselves."
"English","Least said is soonest mended."
"English","Least said, soonest mended."
"English","Lend your money and lose your friend."
"English","Length begets loathing."
"English","The calmest husbands make the stormiest wives."
"English","Let him make use of instinct who cannot make use of reason."
"English","Sweep in front of your own door."
"English","Many things are lost for want of asking."
"English","Much ado and little help."
"English","Kisses that are easily obtained are easily forgotten."
"English","You never miss a slice from a cut loaf."
"English","The afterthought is good for nought, except it be to catch blind horses with."
"English","Venture not to defend what your judgment doubts of."
"English","Vows made in storms are forgotten in calms."
"English","We are all Adam's children, but silk makes the difference."
"English","We are usually the best men when in the worst health."
"English","When a proud man hears another praised, he feels himself injured."
"English","Where old age is evil, youth can learn no good."
"English","Who goes a beast to Rome, a beast returns."
"English","Whom we love best, to them we can say least."
"English","Write down the advice of him who love you, though you like it not at present."
"English","Year of snow fruit will grow."
"English","Too hot to last."
"English","You can't get blood out of a turnip."
"English","Too far East is West."
"English","You never miss the water till the well runs dry."
"English","Young men may die, old men must."
"English","Young men's knocks old men feel."
"English","Young people don't know what age is, and old people forget what youth was."
"English","Zeal without knowledge is like fire without light."
"English","Zeal without knowledge is the sister of folly."
"English","His fore feet though you sever, his grip he'll make good."
"English","And he repents in thorns that sleeps in beds of roses."
"English","Poor thieves in halters we behold; And great thieves in their chains of gold."
"English","When two agree in their desire, One sparke will set them both on fire."
"English","The greater the truth, the greater the libel."
"English","If thou hast not a capon, feed on an onion."
"English","You can't get blood out of a stone."
"English","The nearer the bone, the sweeter the meat."
"English","Take a hair of the dog that has bitten you."
"English","Take care of your pennies and your pounds will take care of your heirs and barristers."
"English","Take heed of enemies reconciled, and of meat twice boiled."
"English","The bait hides the hook."
"English","The camel asking for horns lost also his ears. [In grasping for things we need not, we often lose what we have.]"
"English","The cat has nine lives: three for playing, three for straying, three for staying."
"English","The darkest hour is that before the dawn."
"English","The difference is wide that the sheets will not decide."
"English","The eyes are the window of the soul."
"English","The face is no index to the heart."
"English","The golden age never was the present age."
"English","Two wrongs do not make a right."
"English","The greatest barkers bite not sorest."
"English","Take a dog for a companion and a stick in your hand."
"English","The noisiest drum has nothing in it but air."
"English","The noisy fowler catches no birds."
"English","The north wind has no corn and a poor man no friend."
"English","The old ox plows a straight furrow."
"English","The person who is tired will find time to sleep. A person with a bad name is already half hanged."
"English","The pitcher that goes too often to the well is broken at last."
"English","The pitcher will go to the well once too often."
"English","The tongue ever turns to the aching tooth."
"English","The worse the passage the more welcome the port."
"English","There's many a good cock come out of a tattered bag."
"English","There's many a good tune played on an old fiddle."
"English","Think of ease, but work on."
"English","The greater the sinner, the greater the saint."
"English","If thou canst not see the bottom, wade not."
"English","Children suck the mother when they are young and the father when they are old."
"English","Ale in, wit out."
"English","All be the same in a hundred years."
"English","All happiness is in the mind."
"English","All temptations are found either in hope or fear."
"English","An abundance of money ruins youth."
"English","An empty barrel makes the most noise."
"English","An empty belly hears nobody."
"English","An idle mind is the devil's workshop."
"English","An illiterate king is a crowned ass."
"English","Anger dies quickly with a good man."
"English","Age and wedlock bring a man to his nightcap."
"English","Anger edges valor."
"English","Advice to all, security for none."
"English","Anger is often more hurtful than the injury that caused it."
"English","Anger is shortlived in a good man."
"English","Better wear out shoes than sheets."
"English","Better wed over the mixen than over the moor."
"English","Beware of a man of one book."
"English","Big boast, small roast."
"English","A black plum is as sweet as a white."
"English","Blest is the bride the sun shines on."
"English","Blind men can judge no colours."
"English","Blind men should not judge of colours."
"English","Cats hide their claws."
"English","Children are poor men's riches."
"English","The more acquaintance, the more danger."
"English","A smooth sea never made a skilled mariner."
"English","A blind man will not thank you for a looking-glass."
"English","A cold April the barn will fill."
"English","A fair booty makes a fair thief."
"English","A full cup must be carried steadily."
"English","A goose quill is more dangerous than a lion's claw."
"English","A joy that's shared is a joy made double."
"English","A joyful evening may follow a sorrowful morning."
"English","A leap year is never a good sheep year."
"English","A maid who laughs is half taken."
"English","A man is as old as he feels, and a woman as old as she looks."
"English","A proverb is the child of experience."
"English","Age and wedlock tame man and beast."
"English","A small family is soon provided for."
"English","Blind is the bookless man."
"English","A stumble may prevent a fall."
"English","Absence is a shrew."
"English","Absence sharpens love; presence strengthens it."
"English","Absence, and a friendly neighbor, washeth away love."
"English","Accusing the times is but excusing ourselves."
"English","Action is the proper fruit of knowledge."
"English","Actions speak louder than words."
"English","Advantage is a better soldier than rashness."
"English","Adventures are to the adventurous."
"English","Adversity flatters no man."
"English","Adversity is easier borne than prosperity forgot."
"English","Advice is least heeded when most needed."
"English","A shady lane breeds mud."
"English","He opens the door with an ax."
"English","Fancy passes beauty."
"English","Far fowls have fair feathers."
"English","Far from court, far from care."
"English","First deserve, and then desire."
"English","Confession is the first step to repentance."
"English","Fools build houses, and wise men buy them."
"English","Big thunder, little rain."
"English","Give neither advice nor salt, until you are asked for it."
"English","Give neither counsel nor salt till you are asked for it."
"English","Give the devil his due."
"English","Gray hairs are death's blossoms."
"English","Have you any Spanish? (Meaning, Have you got any money?)"
"English","Familiarity breeds contempt."
"English","He is lifeless that is faultless."
"English","First impressions are the most lasting."
"English","He that buyeth magistracy will seek justice."
"English","He that does amiss may do well."
"English","He that goes barefoot must not plant thorns."
"English","He that seeks trouble always finds it."
"English","He that seeks trouble never misses."
"English","He that serves at the altar ought to live by the altar."
"English","He that shippeth the devil must make the best of him."
"English","He that will take the bird must not scare it."
"English","He that will thrive must first ask his wife."
"English","He that will to Cupar maun to Cupar."
"English","He that would the daughter win Must with the mother first begin."
"English","He who says what he likes will hear what he does not like."
"English","He declares himself guilty who justifies himself before accusation."
"English","Despair doubles our strength."
"English","Craftiness must have clothes, but truth loves to go naked."
"English","Crooked logs make straight fires."
"English","Danger is next neighbor to security."
"English","Death always comes too early or too late."
"English","Death closes all doors."
"English","Foul water will quench fire."
"English","Deeds are fruits, words are leaves."
"English","Fame is a magnifying glass."
"English","Despair gives courage to a coward."
"English","Desperate cuts must have desperate cures."
"English","Desperate diseases must have desperate remedies."
"English","Discretion in speech is more important than eloquence."
"English","Discretion is the better part of valor."
"English","Every path has its puddle."
"English","Diseases are the interest of pleasures."
"English","Do not be in a hurry to tie what you cannot untie."
"English","Do not halloo until you are out of the wood."
"English","Do not triumph before the victory."
"English","Do when ye may, or suffer ye the nay, in love 'tis the way."
"English","Don't dig your grave with your own knife and fork."
"English","Don't fall before you're pushed."
"English","Elbow grease is the best polish."
"English","Every ass loves to hear himself bray."
"English","Every bean hath its black."
"English","Every dog has his day."
"English","Every dog is entitled to one bite."
"English","Disease is soon shaken By physic soon taken."
"English, French","A black hen lays a white egg."
"English, French","A ragged colt may make a good horse."
"English, German","All are not thieves that dogs bark at."
"English, German","All ask if a man be rich, no one if he be good."
"English, German","An idle brain is the devil's workshop."
"English, German","When Adam delved, and Eve span, where was then the gentleman?"
"English, German","When all candles be out, all cats be gray."
"English, German","When all fruit fails, welcome haws."
"English, German","When all men say you are an ass, it is high time to bray."
"English, Italian","A good beginning makes a good ending."
"English, Portuguese","A lie has short legs."
"English, Portuguese","A life of leisure, and a life of laziness, are two things."
"English; Italian","Hasty climbers have sudden falls."
"epigram on Butler","He asked for bread and he received a stone."
"epitaph on Fair Rosamund","Here lies, not Rose the chaste, but Rose the fair! Her scents no more perfume, but taint the air."
"Eritrean","A home without a mother is a desert."
"Eskimo","The wolf and the shaman are of one nest."
"Eskimo","Don't let the windows of your home be so small that the light of the sun cannot enter your rooms."
"Eskimo","You never really know your friends from your enemies until the ice breaks."
"Eskimo","Yesterday is ashes; tomorrow wood. Only today does the fire burn brightly."
"Eskimo","Whether you think you can or think you can't, you're right."
"Eskimo","When an wise man dies, the heavens lament."
"Eskimo","Those who know how to play can easily leap over the adversaries of life. And one who knows how to sing and laugh never brews mischief."
"Eskimo","The caribou feeds the wolf, but it is the wolf who keeps the caribou strong."
"Eskimo","Summer is the season of inferior sledding."
"Eskimo","Seek strength, not to be greater than my brother, but to fight my greatest enemy -- myself."
"Eskimo","Perhaps they are not stars, but rather openings in heaven where the love of our lost ones pours through and shines down upon us to let us know they are happy."
"Eskimo","If you are going to walk on thin ice, you might as well dance."
"Eskimo","Unless you're the lead sled dog, the view is pretty much the same."
"Eskimo","Perhaps they are not stars in the sky, but rather openings where our loved ones smile down to let us know that they are happy."
"Eskimo","He that boasts of his own knowledge proclaims his ignorance."
"Eskimo","Even the strongest the eagle cannot soar hirer than the stars."
"Eskimo","It is an ill wind that blows nobody any good."
"Eskimo","Love comes after marriage."
"Eskimo","May you have kindness in your heart, a plump woman in your furs, and seal meat in you larder."
"Eskimo","May you have warmth in your igloo, oil in your lamp, and peace in your heart."
"Eskimo","May your charity increase as much as your wealth."
"Eskimo","Glorious it is when wandering time is come."
"Eskimo","May your charity increase as much as your wealth."
"Eskimo","May you have warmth in your igloo, oil in your lamp, and peace in your heart."
"Estonian","Who is made to slave should do it with pleasure."
"Estonian","Who is generous is lazy, who is angry is diligent."
"Estonian","Who is a piece of stick in youth will be a block of wood in old age."
"Estonian","Who is late will be left without."
"Estonian","Who is good will be rewarded."
"Estonian","Who is doomed to death will not be cured by medicines either."
"Estonian","Who is careless will be unhappy."
"Estonian","Who is born stupid will die stupid."
"Estonian","Who is afraid of wolf should not go into the woods."
"Estonian","Who laughs early will cry later."
"Estonian","Who is angry with one is angry with the other."
"Estonian","Who is man here will be a man there."
"Estonian","Who is oily is also cruel."
"Estonian","Who is oily is also stingy."
"Estonian","Who is out of sight is out of mind."
"Estonian","Who is quick in youth will be diligent in old age."
"Estonian","Who is smart will learn."
"Estonian","Who is soft will be sat on."
"Estonian","Who is stupid in the morning will be stupid in the evening."
"Estonian","Who is up to mischief will get beaten."
"Estonian","Who is a man for one thing will be a man for another."
"Estonian","Who laughs at beggar's staff and roundhouse will be put to prison himself."
"Estonian","Who has burnt himself with soup will blow on water as well."
"Estonian","Who laughs will get a furuncle."
"Estonian","Who kills has to bury."
"Estonian","Who falls from height will suffer a hard blow."
"Estonian","Who leaves the boat on water is miserable."
"Estonian","Who flees from a wolf will find a bear with two sons instead."
"Estonian","Wise is who admits he is still ignorant."
"Estonian","Who gives to the poor will be rewarded by God for a hundred."
"Estonian","Who fears will lose."
"Estonian","Who goes out begging with a bread will come back with a piece, who goes out with a piece will come back with a bread."
"Estonian","Who goes to catch a partridge will lose a hen."
"Estonian","Who goes to church without his axe is a shitty man."
"Estonian","Who grows up without fear will live without honour."
"Estonian","Who handles water is bound to get wet."
"Estonian","Who has gone out to the world will stay there."
"Estonian","Who has been burned once is afraid of fire."
"Estonian","Who is a dog will get dog's pay."
"Estonian","Who has done evil will answer for evil."
"Estonian","Who has got a good wife has found a good thing."
"Estonian","Who has lied once will not be believed the second time."
"Estonian","Who has moved for three times has as if lived through a fire."
"Estonian","Who has not suffered from wounds will laugh at scars."
"Estonian","Who has said 'yes' once already should not say 'no' any more."
"Estonian","Who has travelled a lot has seen a lot."
"Estonian","Who helps himself will be helped by God."
"Estonian","Who helps us in trouble is a true friend."
"Estonian","Who is a dog here will be a dog there."
"Estonian","Who fears laughing will die of fart."
"Estonian","Who wants to teach others has to be learned himself."
"Estonian","Who strikes his father or mother his hand will grow out of the grave."
"Estonian","Who suffers will have no regrets."
"Estonian","Who suffers will live long."
"Estonian","Who takes care of a cat will take care of a horse too."
"Estonian","Who takes care of a widow's 'hole' will inherit the heavenly kingdom."
"Estonian","Who talks a lot lies a lot."
"Estonian","Who talks a lot will be in trouble."
"Estonian","Who talks a lot will get little done."
"Estonian","Who toils and moils will be helped by God."
"Estonian","Who touches all will see many a thing."
"Estonian","Who works in sweat will eat with appetite."
"Estonian","Who wants to makes his friend his enemy should loan him some money."
"Estonian","Who starts well will finish badly."
"Estonian","Who wants will get."
"Estonian","Who weds a widow with three children takes four thieves into his house."
"Estonian","Who whisks himself on a Saturday will be punished by God."
"Estonian","Who works hard alone will gobble alone."
"Estonian","Who works hard will feel no hunger."
"Estonian","Whos's lazy when living will be lazy when dying."
"Estonian","You cannot eat downwind, you will get the chaff in your eyes."
"Estonian","You shall have the good that you bring."
"Estonian","A much-used plow shines; stagnant waters stink."
"Estonian","Who eats will be strong."
"Estonian","Who wanders all the moors will taste all the berries."
"Estonian","Who seeks shame will find shame."
"Estonian","Who lies that also steals."
"Estonian","Who lifts a dog's tail is a dog himself."
"Estonian","Who lives as a dog will die as a dog."
"Estonian","Who lives in lust will die in hunger for fat."
"Estonian","Who lives together with a pig will end up eating shit."
"Estonian","Who loans his ass to someone else should shit through his ribs."
"Estonian","Who looks for meat will find a bone."
"Estonian","Who never built a house thinks that the walls grow out of the ground."
"Estonian","Who promises a lot will regret a lot."
"Estonian","Who promises much will give little."
"Estonian","Who steals that also lies."
"Estonian","Who reminds of the past and recall what has been will have his ear cut off."
"Estonian","Who starts with small will end up with big."
"Estonian","Who seeks something will get that."
"Estonian","Who sees a mote in other's eye will not see a beam in his own eye."
"Estonian","Who sets a bug on its feet on the path will step up the staircase."
"Estonian","Who shares is a king."
"Estonian","Who shears the sheep's head will live a couple of days, who shears its tail will live a hundred years."
"Estonian","Who shouts at home will bark away from home."
"Estonian","Who sows a wind will reap a storm."
"Estonian","Who sows evil shall reap perdition."
"Estonian","Who sows what shall reap that."
"Estonian","Who starts something has to finish it."
"Estonian","Who lets a woman slap him is as humiliated as if a pig has bitten."
"Estonian","Who reminds of an old thing will have his eye picked out."
"Estonian","Barking dogs don't catch hares."
"Estonian","The devil does not always wear boots -- he sometimes comes barefoot."
"Estonian","He's a fool who promises more than he can make."
"Estonian","If the bread in the oven is a failure you lose a week; if the harvest is a failure you lose a year; if marriage is a failure then you lose a life."
"Estonian","If you go only once round the room, you are wiser than he who sits still."
"Estonian","In a garment made of silk there are no fleas."
"Estonian","It is a sheep who lets himself sheared."
"Estonian","It is better to be without a wife for a minute than without tobacco for an hour."
"Estonian","Justice knows no friendship."
"Estonian","Little kettles soon boil over."
"Estonian","Lo does not thank for little will thank for much."
"Estonian","He who takes pains will get things done."
"Estonian","Man is after money, but money is after his soul."
"Estonian","He who suffers the bitter will taste the sweet."
"Estonian","Old love does not rust."
"Estonian","One woman never praises another."
"Estonian","Patience makes all hardships light."
"Estonian","Respect bread because bread is older than we are."
"Estonian","Silence is sometimes the answer."
"Estonian","Smart is the one who goes along with time, stupid is the one who bears his fangs."
"Estonian","Smart who smiles, stupid who laughs."
"Estonian","Sometimes silence is the proper answer."
"Estonian","The cat who snoops around will feed his kitten."
"Estonian","The cork is always bigger than the mouth of the bottle."
"Estonian","Make fun of the man, not of his hat."
"Estonian","Better a goat that can give milk than a cow that cannot."
"Estonian","Who eats lying on his side will commit ten sins, who eats lying on his back will commit seven sins."
"Estonian","A debt is always new."
"Estonian","A dog who is called for, an honest man goes himself."
"Estonian","A girl who cannot patch man's trousers in between the legs, must not marry at all, because what use does a man have of such a stupid wife."
"Estonian","A girl without a needle is like a cat without a claw."
"Estonian","A good deed bears interest."
"Estonian","A good deed is written on snow."
"Estonian","A man is who knows to marry a woman and buy a horse."
"Estonian","A man who gets, a bitch who lets."
"Estonian","A man who has learned much is rich."
"Estonian","He's a fool who earns a square meal."
"Estonian","Beauty does not fill your tummy."
"Estonian","One cannot make soup out of beauty."
"Estonian","Coal that does not burn gives little heat."
"Estonian","Do not choose your wife on your way to the church."
"Estonian","Don't put off today's work till tomorrow."
"Estonian","Earth is dearer than gold."
"Estonian","Earth is more precious than gold."
"Estonian","Give good and get good."
"Estonian","Happy the marriage where the husband is the head and the wife the heart."
"Estonian","He who cooks the soup must eat it up himself."
"Estonian","He who rows goes far."
"Estonian","He who seeks shall find."
"Estonian","A poor beggar is the one who begs without a bag."
"Estonian","Who does not obey the parents' word will be taught by the world."
"Estonian","Who borrows has to pay back his debt."
"Estonian","Who bungles will get."
"Estonian","Who can not be trusted in small things can not be trusted in big things."
"Estonian","Who can tie an oven brush, weave a sackcloth and turn over chitterlings is ready for marriage."
"Estonian","Who celebrates all holidays will face all hungers."
"Estonian","Who cheats is a dog, who lets himself be cheated is an ass."
"Estonian","Who cuddles a cat, his farmyard will be blessed."
"Estonian","Who dies threatening will be buried with farting."
"Estonian","The fish who is in the weir will want out, who is outside will want inside the weir."
"Estonian","Who does not jump into water will not learn to swim."
"Estonian","Who borrows a lot."
"Estonian","Who does not obey forbidding will regret afterwards."
"Estonian","Who disobeys his parents, disobeys God."
"Estonian","Who does not share what he is given will not share what he has in his barn."
"Estonian","Who does not thank for a little will not thank for a lot."
"Estonian","Who does not want to work, need not to eat."
"Estonian","Who does not work will not get food."
"Estonian","Who doesn't collect kopecks will not get a ruble."
"Estonian","Who doesn't want one will not get two."
"Estonian","Who eats a lot will do a lot."
"Estonian","Who eats a lot will make a mountain."
"Estonian","Who eats bread with barley porridge will be sent to Siberia."
"Estonian","Who eats like a wolf will work like a bear."
"Estonian","Manure is the farmer's gold."
"Estonian","The mistakes of other people are good teachers."
"Estonian","The law is three days older than the earth."
"Estonian","Who does not notice you in rags will not notice you in nice clothes, who notices you in rags will also motice you in nice clothes."
"Estonian","The man who can sharpen hundred stakes between two meals, can take a wife."
"Estonian","Who bites with a lie will swallow with pain."
"Estonian","The mistakes of others are good teachers."
"Estonian","The mouth is the interpreter for the heart."
"Estonian","The new boat will find the old stones."
"Estonian","The old man looks death in the eye, the young man keeps him behind his back."
"Estonian","The pipe is nearer than the wife."
"Estonian","The stomach never gets full with licking."
"Estonian","The summer comes and kisses the child, the winter comes and kills it."
"Estonian","The town is new every day."
"Estonian","Who asks a lot will get wiser."
"Estonian","The wood is the poor man's coat."
"Estonian","Who begs for the sake of mischief steals from the God."
"Estonian","Where there's work, there's bread."
"Estonian","Where there is no fear, there is no pity."
"Estonian","When God gives a child, he also gives the clothing."
"Estonian","Wasting time is stealing from oneself."
"Estonian","They are not all men who wear trousers."
"Estonian","There is no room for two kings in one castle."
"Estonian","When death comes, the rich man has no money and the poor man no debt."
"Estonian","Who believes soon will be deceived soon as well."
"Estonian","The work will teach you how to do it."
"Estonian","Earth is dearer than gold."
"Estonian","One cannot make soup out of beauty."
"Estonian","The work will teach you how to do it."
"Ethiopia","If you offend, ask for pardon; if offended, forgive."
"Ethiopia","Snake at your feet - a stick at your hand!"
"Ethiopia","She who does not yet know how to walk, cannot climb a ladder."
"Ethiopia","Restless feet may walk into a snake pit."
"Ethiopia","One who runs alone cannot be outrun."
"Ethiopia","One scoops with a scoop."
"Ethiopia","The cattle is as good as the pasture in which it grazes."
"Ethiopia","If the heart is sad, tears will flow."
"Ethiopia","Unless you call out, who will open the door?"
"Ethiopia","One who recovers from sickness, forgets about God."
"Ethiopia","The dog I bought, bit me; the fire I kindled, burned me."
"Ethiopia","The fool speaks, the wise man listens."
"Ethiopia","The frog wanted to be as big as the elephant, and burst."
"Ethiopia","The witness of a rat is another rat."
"Ethiopia","Where there is no shame, there is no honor."
"Ethiopia","To one who does not know, a small garden is a forest."
"Ethiopia","What is inflated too much, will burst into fragments."
"Ethiopia","When a fool is cursed, he thinks he is being praised."
"Ethiopia","When spider webs unite, they can tie up a lion."
"Ethiopia","When the heart overflows, it comes out through the mouth."
"Ethiopia","He who digs too deep for a fish, may come out with a snake."
"Ethiopia","There is no one who became rich because he broke a holiday, and no one who became fat because he broke a fast."
"Ethiopia","A fool looks for dung where the cow never browsed."
"Ethiopia","If relatives help each other, what evil can hurt them?"
"Ethiopia","He who wants to barter, usually knows what is best for him."
"Ethiopia","A blade won't cut another blade; a cheat won't cheat another cheat."
"Ethiopia","A cat may go to a monastery, but she still remains a cat!"
"Ethiopia","A close friend can become a close enemy."
"Ethiopia","A fool and water will go the way they are diverted."
"Ethiopia","A fool will pair an ox with an elephant."
"Ethiopia","A home without a woman is like a barn without cattle."
"Ethiopia","A loose tooth will not rest until it's pulled out."
"Ethiopia","A partner in the business will not put an obstacle to it."
"Ethiopia","Advise and counsel him; if he does not listen, let adversity teach him."
"Ethiopia","Anticipate the good so that you may enjoy it."
"Ethiopia","Cactus is bitter only to him who tastes of it."
"Ethiopia","He who learns, teaches."
"Ethiopia","Clothes put on while running come off while running."
"Ethiopia","Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole."
"Ethiopia","Dine with a stranger but save your love for your family."
"Ethiopia","Evil enters like a needle and spreads like an oak tree."
"Ethiopia","A too modest man goes hungry."
"Ethiopia","He who conceals his disease cannot expect to be cured."
"Ethiopia","A cow gave birth to a fire: she wanted to lick it, but it burned; she wanted to leave it, but she could not because it was her own child."
"Ethiopian","When spider webs unite, they can tie up a lion."
"Ethiopian","The beer is difficult to strain."
"Ethiopian","The first camel in the train holds everyone up, but it is the last which gets the beating."
"Ethiopian","The eye of the leopard is on the goat, and the eye of the goat is on the leaf."
"Ethiopian","The dog I bought, bit me; the fire I kindeled, burned me."
"Ethiopian","The coward sweats in water."
"Ethiopian","The cow knows the cowherd but not the owner."
"Ethiopian","The cattle is as good as the pasture in which it grazes."
"Ethiopian","The best of mankind is a farmer; the best food is fruit."
"Ethiopian","The fool is thirsty in the midst of a downpour."
"Ethiopian","The skin creaks according to the country."
"Ethiopian","The calves do not fear the horns of their mother."
"Ethiopian","The fool speaks, the wise man listens."
"Ethiopian","The frog wanted to be as big as the elephant, and burst."
"Ethiopian","The heart of a fool is in his mouth and the mouth of the wise man is in his heart."
"Ethiopian","The little stars will always shine while the great sun is often eclipsed."
"Ethiopian","The mouse is silent while laboring, but when the baby is conceived, she cries."
"Ethiopian","The nile has no resting place it wanderes around carrying a log."
"Ethiopian","The one who is mistaken is the one who does nothing."
"Ethiopian","The person who grew up without correction will find his mouth slipping instead of his foot."
"Ethiopian","The arrogant blind man picks a fight with his guide."
"Ethiopian","The same water never runs into the same river."
"Ethiopian","Restless feet may walk into a snake pit."
"Ethiopian","The point of the needle must pass first."
"Ethiopian","Regret, like a tail, comes at the end."
"Ethiopian","No one knows what the dawn will bring."
"Ethiopian","Oh old hyena eat me without making excuses."
"Ethiopian","One does not became fat because he broke a fast."
"Ethiopian","One is born, one dies; the land grows."
"Ethiopian","One scoops with a scoop."
"Ethiopian","One should punish a child the first time he comes home with a stolen egg. Otherwise, the day he returns home with a stolen ox, it will be too late."
"Ethiopian","One who plants grapes by the road side, and one who marries a pretty woman, share the same problem."
"Ethiopian","One who recovers from sickness, forgets about God."
"Ethiopian","One who runs alone cannot be outrun by another."
"Ethiopian","One who tries to hide with a dog, a child, a goat, or a person with a cold, will not remain hidden."
"Ethiopian","Sharing a secret with a rogue is like carrying grain in a bag with a hole."
"Ethiopian","Pride is no substitute for a dinner."
"Ethiopian","Termites live underground."
"Ethiopian","Unless you call out, who will open the door?"
"Ethiopian","Saying that it's for her child, she gets herself a loaf of bread."
"Ethiopian","The sky is so close for him who sits."
"Ethiopian","She who does not yet know how to walk, cannot climb a ladder."
"Ethiopian","Singing ""Alelulia""everywwhere does not prove piety."
"Ethiopian","Singing ""Alleluia"" everywhere does not prove piety."
"Ethiopian","Sitting is being crippled."
"Ethiopian","Smooth seas do not make skillful sailors."
"Ethiopian","Snake at your feet - a stick at your hand."
"Ethiopian","Snake at your feet a stick at your hand."
"Ethiopian","Only the man who is not hungry says the coconut has a hard shell."
"Ethiopian","While trying to pull down something from the antique she lost what she had under her armpit."
"Ethiopian","To one who knows no better, a small garden is a forest."
"Ethiopian","When the hyena is gone, that is when the dog barks."
"Ethiopian","When the hyena is gone, the dog begins to bark."
"Ethiopian","When the Nile knows a secret the desert will soon know it too."
"Ethiopian","When the webs of the spider join, they can trap a lion."
"Ethiopian","When there are many women, the cabbage will be spoled. The slimming of an elephant and the losses of a rich man are not noticeable."
"Ethiopian","When they fooled the chicken they threw her into a carrying basket."
"Ethiopian","When they wish to eat a vulture, they call it a guinea fowl."
"Ethiopian","When you are pepper, I am mustard; when thou art a needle, I am a knife."
"Ethiopian","When spiders' webs unite, they can tie up a lion."
"Ethiopian","Whether it rains or stops raining, the lentils have two eyes."
"Ethiopian","When spiders' unite, they can tie up a lion."
"Ethiopian","Who cannot yet walk, cannot climb a ladder."
"Ethiopian","With man comes the quarrel."
"Ethiopian","Woman without man is like a field without seed."
"Ethiopian","You are like dew even before it rains."
"Ethiopian","You cannot build a house for last year's summer."
"Ethiopian","You may well have two legs but you still can't climb two trees at the same time."
"Ethiopian","You think of water when the well is empty."
"Ethiopian","You travel on until you return home; you live on until you return to earth."
"Ethiopian","No better witnesses than your own eyes."
"Ethiopian","I paid a goat because I blaabed."
"Ethiopian","Where there is no shame, there is no honor."
"Ethiopian","What is inflated too much, will burst into fragments."
"Ethiopian","The son of the nile thirsts for water."
"Ethiopian","The tail and repentance go behind."
"Ethiopian","The witness of a rat is another rat."
"Ethiopian","There is no cure for him who hides an illness."
"Ethiopian","There is no one who became rich because he broke a holiday, and no one who gained weight because he broke a fast."
"Ethiopian","They snatched from me my own cry."
"Ethiopian","Thorns prick lightly the man who walks slowly."
"Ethiopian","To one who does not know, a who garden is a forest."
"Ethiopian","Try not to get hold of a leopard's tail, but if you do -- don't let go."
"Ethiopian","When the heart overflows, it comes out through the mouth."
"Ethiopian","What has blown a way , cannot be found again."
"Ethiopian","The slimming of an elephant and the losses of a rich man are not noticeable."
"Ethiopian","What is taken for oneself is usually not a small piece."
"Ethiopian","What one desires is always better than what one has."
"Ethiopian","What one hopes for is always better than what one has."
"Ethiopian","When a fool is cursed, he thinks he is being praised."
"Ethiopian","When he looked under the saddle he lost his horse."
"Ethiopian","When one is in love, a cliff becomes a meadow."
"Ethiopian","When one is prepared, difficulties do not come."
"Ethiopian","When one sets a portion for oneself, usually it is not too small."
"Ethiopian","When spider webs unite, they can tie up a lion."
"Ethiopian","When spiders unite, they can tie down a lion."
"Ethiopian","What has been blown away, cannot be found again."
"Ethiopian","Better an egg this year than a chicken next year."
"Ethiopian","A shameless person has no sense of shame at all."
"Ethiopian","A silly daughter teaches her mother how to bear children."
"Ethiopian","A single stick may smoke, but it will not burn."
"Ethiopian","A too modest man goes hungry."
"Ethiopian","Advise and counsel him; if he does not listen, let adversity teach him."
"Ethiopian","After the hyena has gone, the dog barks."
"Ethiopian","An eye and a friend are quickly hurt."
"Ethiopian","An overly modest man goes hungry."
"Ethiopian","Anticipate the good so that you may enjoy it."
"Ethiopian","Do not hesitate or you will be left in between doing something, having something and being nothing."
"Ethiopian","Because he killed his wife he took shelter with his in-laws."
"Ethiopian","A melancholic look is visible but not a melancholic heart."
"Ethiopian","By persevering the egg walks on legs."
"Ethiopian","Cactus is bitter only to him who tastes it."
"Ethiopian","Clothes put on while running come off while running."
"Ethiopian","Coffee and love taste best when hot."
"Ethiopian","Coffee is our bread."
"Ethiopian","Confiding a secret to an unworthy person is like carrying a grain in a bag with a hole in it."
"Ethiopian","Cow dung can't be gathered where no cow has been."
"Ethiopian","Dine with a stranger, but save youur love for your famiuly."
"Ethiopian","Do not blame God for having created the tiger, but thank Him for not giving it wings."
"Ethiopian","As the wound inflames the finger, so the thought inflames the mind."
"Ethiopian","A fool is thirsty in the midst of water."
"Ethiopian","O, sheep if I do not eat you, you will eat me, said the hyena."
"Ethiopian","A belt fastened while running will come undone while running."
"Ethiopian","A bird hanging between two branches will get bitten on both wings."
"Ethiopian","A blade won't cut another blade; a cheat won't cheat another cheat."
"Ethiopian","A bleating sheep loses a bite."
"Ethiopian","A cat may go to a monastery, but she still remains a cat."
"Ethiopian","A close friend can become a close enemy."
"Ethiopian","A cow gave birth to a fire: she wanted to lick it, but it burned; she wanted to leave it, but she could not because it was her own child."
"Ethiopian","A cow gave birth to a fire; she wanted to lick it, but it burned; she wanted to leave it, but she could not because it was her own child."
"Ethiopian","A prtner in the buisness will not put an obstacle to it."
"Ethiopian","A fool at forty is a fool indeed."
"Ethiopian","A partner in the business will not put an obstacle to it."
"Ethiopian","A fool looks for dung where the cow never browsed."
"Ethiopian","A fool will pair an ox with an elephant."
"Ethiopian","A good conversation is better than a good bed."
"Ethiopian","A good name is better than good perfume."
"Ethiopian","A home without a woman is like a barn without cattle."
"Ethiopian","A house can't be built for the rainy season that is past."
"Ethiopian","A hyena intrudes through a gap a dog opened."
"Ethiopian","A loose tooth will not rest until it is pulled out."
"Ethiopian","A man who is too modest goes hungry."
"Ethiopian","A powerful friend becomes a powerful enemy."
"Ethiopian","A fool and water will go the way they are diverted."
"Ethiopian","If you gladly stoop to the ground don't be surprised if they trample over you."
"Ethiopian","Don't blame God for creating the tiger -- instead, thank him for not giving it wings."
"Ethiopian","A mouse that wants to die goes to sniff the cat's nose."
"Ethiopian","If a friend hurts you, run to your wife."
"Ethiopian","If a freind hurts you, run to your wife."
"Ethiopian","Move your neck according to the music."
"Ethiopian","If one is not in a hurry, even an egg will start walking."
"Ethiopian","If relatives help each other, what harm can be done to them?"
"Ethiopian","If the heart is sad, tears will flow."
"Ethiopian","If they speak, they are wind; if they are silent, they are gourds."
"Ethiopian","Mock the palm tree only when the date harvest is over."
"Ethiopian","If you are planning to travel where corn grows, you should take a sickle with you."
"Ethiopian","Horns are not too heavy for the cow."
"Ethiopian","If you offend, ask for pardon; if offeneded, forgive."
"Ethiopian","If you see that a town worships a calf, then cut the grass and feed it."
"Ethiopian","Invite him as not to antagonize him, shove him off as not to let him eat."
"Ethiopian","It is better to be the cub of a live jackal than of a dead lion."
"Ethiopian","It is easy to become a monk in one's old age."
"Ethiopian","It is foolhardy to start a fire just to see the flames."
"Ethiopian","It is foolish for someone to remain thirsty when he is in the midst of water."
"Ethiopian","It is like using a spoon to get water from the nile."
"Ethiopian","Little by little an egg wil walk."
"Ethiopian","Living is worthless for one without a home."
"Ethiopian","If you are going to go where corn grows, take a cutting tool with you."
"Ethiopian","Give advice; if people don't listen, let adversity teach them."
"Ethiopian","Don't catch a leopard by the tail, but if you do, don't let it go."
"Ethiopian","Don't demand that what you write in the Nile will be read in the desert."
"Ethiopian","Don't spend the evening in a house where you can't spend the night. A good name is better than good perfume. After the hyena has gone, the dog barks."
"Ethiopian","Eat when the food is ready; speak when the time is right."
"Ethiopian","Eat when the meal is ready, speak when the time is ripe."
"Ethiopian","Even if Christ's death could have been prevented, Judas would still be a traitor."
"Ethiopian","Even over cold pudding, the coward says: ""It will burn my mouth.""."
"Ethiopian","Evil enters like a needle and spreads like an oak tree."
"Ethiopian","Evil gotten, evil spent."
"Ethiopian","I have a cow in the sky, but cannot drink her milk."
"Ethiopian","Fifty lemons are a load for one person, but for fifty persons they are perfume."
"Ethiopian","Men fear danger, women only the sight of it."
"Ethiopian","Great men have big hearts."
"Ethiopian","He who conceals his disease cannot expect to be cured."
"Ethiopian","He who digs too deep for a fish, may come out with a serpent."
"Ethiopian","He who has nothing to do, scatters and gathers."
"Ethiopian","He who knows much does not speak much."
"Ethiopian","He who lives with an ass, sounds like an ass."
"Ethiopian","He who wants to barter, usually knows what is best for himself."
"Ethiopian","He, who learns, teaches."
"Ethiopian","Her horns are too heavy for the cow."
"Ethiopian","His mouth talks about Sheik Hussein but his hands are stretched up to the tree."
"Ethiopian","Evil penetrates like a needle and then becomes like an oak tree."
"Ethiopian","When one is prepared, difficulties do not come."
"Ethiopian","Sitting is being crippled."
"Ethiopian","The cattle is as good as the pasture in which it grazes."
"Ethiopian","The coward sweats in water."
"Ethiopian","The frog wanted to be as big as the elephant, and burst."
"Ethiopian","The witness of a rat is another rat."
"Ethiopian","She who does not yet know how to walk cannot climb a ladder."
"Ethiopian","When one is in love, a cliff becomes a meadow."
"Ethiopian","Advise and counsel him; if he does not listen, let adversity teach him."
"Ethiopian","When spider webs unite, they can tie up a lion."
"Ethiopian","When spiders unite, they can tie down a lion."
"Ethiopian","What one hopes for is always better than what one has."
"Ethiopian","Move your neck according to the music."
"Ethiopian","He who conceals his disease cannot expect to be cured."
"Ethiopian","Evil enters like a needle and spreads like an oak tree."
"Ethiopian","You cannot build a house for last year's summer."
"Ethiopian","A single stick may smoke, but it will not burn."
"Ethiopian","A silly daughter teaches her mother how to bear children."
"Ethiopian","A fool is thirsty in the midst of water."
"Ethiopian","A fool at forty is a fool indeed."
"Ethiopian","A fool and water will go the way they are diverted."
"Ethiopian","A cat may go to a monastery, but she still remains a cat."
"Ethiopian","A bleating sheep loses a bite."
"Ethiopian","A blade won't cut another blade; a cheat won't cheat another cheat."
"Ethiopian","Give advice; if people don't listen, let adversity teach them."
"European","One father is better at caring for ten children than ten children are for one father."
"European","One father is better at caring for ten children than ten children are for one father."
"Ewe","Eggs and metal should not be put in the same sack."
"Ewe","In the great river there are large and small fish."
"Ewe","The mouth makes debts, but the arms pay."
"Ewe","The son of the god of thunder does not die of lightning."
"Ewe","When the snake is in the house one need not discuss the matter at length."
"Ewe","Who has shoes does not fear thorns."
"Ewe","Eggs and metal do not go in the same basket."
"Fang","I refuse to fight does not mean I am a coward."
"Fang","You cannot teach the old gorilla the road."
"Fante","Who follows the elephant will have no problems."
"Faroese","The child does not cry as long as it has its way."
"Faroese","The food we grow ourselves, is fit."
"Faroese","The dog is as his master."
"Faroese","See the guest out if you want to see him again."
"Faroese","The dead man's heirs are many, but not his brothers."
"Faroese","The knifeless man is a lifeless man."
"Faroese","The crow thinks best of her own chickens."
"Faroese","The coward falls."
"Faroese","The blind one asked the naked guy to lead him on."
"Faroese","Swimming is easy if someone holds your head above water."
"Faroese","Small fish are better than empty dishes."
"Faroese","The one who derides others, gets derided too."
"Faroese","Small birds lay small eggs."
"Faroese","Time runs like the river current."
"Faroese","Old ravens are not easy to fool."
"Faroese","Old ones are good at councelling."
"Faroese","Nothing ventured, nothing won."
"Faroese","Nothing is as bad that it isn't good for something."
"Faroese","Small boats sail, as well as ships."
"Faroese","When the mouse is satisfied, the flour is bitter."
"Faroese","None reaches further than his arms reach."
"Faroese","Blind is the bookless man."
"Faroese","You've made your bed, so you can lie in it."
"Faroese","You can take the ox to the river, but begging it won't make it drink."
"Faroese","Wool is the gold of the Faroes."
"Faroese","Who rides first, controls the speed."
"Faroese","Who is reared at home fares wrong away from home."
"Faroese","There should be good embers after a good fire."
"Faroese","Who does not eat till he is full, won't lick himself satisfied."
"Faroese","The thief believes that everybody steals."
"Faroese","When the mouse is full, the flour tastes bitter."
"Faroese","When ale goes in, the wit goes out."
"Faroese","We are born to be our own, and not fed to it."
"Faroese","Things don't always go as planned."
"Faroese","There lies often falsehood beneath a pretty skin."
"Faroese","There is always something the matter with a bad child."
"Faroese","There are misfortunes in almost every family."
"Faroese","Who fares suitably, gets ahead."
"Faroese","Better leave something than eating overly much."
"Faroese","He who waits gets a tailwind, and he who rows, a harbour."
"Faroese","He that rows out often, gets fish at last."
"Faroese","Haste often causes nasty things."
"Faroese","Everything is better than owning nothing."
"Faroese","Every day is not a baking-day."
"Faroese","Burnt child fears the fire."
"Faroese","Hear about others, but make it cosy for yourselves."
"Faroese","Better to own it than asking your brother for it."
"Faroese","Better be a good man's slave than badly married."
"Faroese","As we are egged on, we rage."
"Faroese","After a landslide one more can be expected."
"Faroese","A man without a knife, is a man without a life."
"Faroese","A crow likes her own chick the best."
"Faroese","A boatless man is tied up."
"Faroese","Nobody is to eat the morsel of someone else."
"Faroese","Done by oneself is well done."
"Faroese","Big rivers are made out of many small brooks."
"Faroese","It's the owner of the cow who walks close to her tail."
"Faroese","No one should forget old friends and old goats."
"Faroese","Many can carry things on both shoulders."
"Faroese","An eager dog often gets a torn skin."
"Faroese","Heavy is an old man's fall."
"Faroese","Keeping silence won't get you to court."
"Faroese","Mad dogs get their skin torn."
"Faroese","It's difficult to build a boat plank against the wave."
"Faroese","It's better to be prepared than swift afterwards."
"Faroese","It's bad to have to trust in others."
"Faroese","It is best to ask a man who manages on his own."
"Faroese","High calling brings a high fall."
"Faroese","It mars to tie the dog to the butter stamp."
"Faroese","If a Dane first has come into the room, more Danes will probably follow."
"Faroese","It is a poor mouse that doesn't have more than one hole."
"Faroese","Loans are to come home laughingly."
"Faroese","It is good to wait for a man that is alive."
"Faroese","It is better to attract two birds to the nest than one."
"Faroese","It's a poor bird that fouls its own nest."
"Fiji","Life is like this: sometimes sun, sometimes rain."
"Fijian","Life is like this: sometimes sun, sometimes rain."
"Fijian","Idleness is to be dead at the limbs but alive within."
"Fijian","Each bay, its own wind."
"Fijian","Each bay, its own wind."
"Fijian","Idleness is to be dead at the limbs but alive within."
"Filipino","People who do not break things first will never learn to create anything."
"Filipino","The hardest person to wake up is the person who is already awake."
"Filipino","The pain of the little finger is felt by the whole body."
"Filipino","The earth has ears, news has wings."
"Filipino","The higher the bamboo, the more it can be bent."
"Filipino","The bitterness of studying is preferable to the bitterness of ignorance."
"Filipino","The noisiest drum has nothing but air inside."
"Filipino","Tell me who your father is, and I'll tell you who you are."
"Filipino","Tell a lie and the truth will come to light."
"Filipino","Stones hurled to the sky. Don't get angry if you get hit."
"Filipino","Postpone today's anger until tomorrow."
"Filipino","The fly on the back of a water buffalo thinks that it's taller than the buffalo."
"Filipino","One who spends too much time choosing ends up with cracked wares."
"Filipino","Not all that is black is charcoal."
"Filipino","Not all goodness brings sweetness."
"Filipino","No undertaking is difficult if pursued with perseverance."
"Filipino","No matter how long the procession, it still ends up in church."
"Filipino","No child was ever born without having been conceived."
"Filipino","No bread is too hard for warm coffee."
"Filipino","Marriage is not just a porridge that you spit out if it's too hot."
"Filipino","The person who is always criticizing others is usually the one who deserves criticism the most."
"Filipino","Wherever the head goes, the tail will follow."
"Filipino","Loyalty is more valuable than diamonds."
"Filipino","Life is like a wheel, sometimes at the top, sometimes at the bottom."
"Filipino","Mercy resides in God; deeds are in men."
"Filipino","Truthfulness ensures a lasting relationship."
"Filipino","Lazy people will eventually lose even their trousers."
"Filipino","A clear conscience is more valuable than wealth."
"Filipino","While the blanket is short, learn to bend."
"Filipino","Wherever you go, habit follows."
"Filipino","Wherever you find sugar, you'll find ants."
"Filipino","Where there is gossip, there will be arguing."
"Filipino","Whatever the tree, so is the fruit."
"Filipino","What one learns in childhood he carries into adulthood."
"Filipino","What good is horse when the grass is already dead?"
"Filipino","What good is grass when the horse is already dead?"
"Filipino","Whatever you do, think about it seven times."
"Filipino","What good is a palace if it's inhabited by owls. Better a straw hut inhabited by humans."
"Filipino","The prepared beats the hardworking person."
"Filipino","To a person who has real shame, words are oath."
"Filipino","To a dog a bone has more value than a pearl."
"Filipino","Thorns bury shallowly into one who walks slowly. Thorns bury deeply into one who walks fast."
"Filipino","There's no glory without sacrifice."
"Filipino","There's a crocodile in every big river."
"Filipino","There is no earthly bliss not watered by tears."
"Filipino","There is no bitter crust to a hungry person."
"Filipino","There is no bad food in a famine."
"Filipino","The real hero doesn't say that he is one."
"Filipino","The rattan basket criticizes the palm leaf basket, still both are full of holes."
"Filipino","What good is a something big that is still needed to be searched, if there is something small that is in your hands?"
"Filipino","Acts tough but really a wimp."
"Filipino","Don't trust in fortune until you are in heaven."
"Filipino","Don't put your trust in Fortune until you are in heaven."
"Filipino","Don't empty the water jar until the rain falls."
"Filipino","Coincidence defeats a well-laid plan."
"Filipino","Children who get everything they ask for seldom succeed in life."
"Filipino","Caution minimizes loss."
"Filipino","Borrowed clothes are either too tight or too loose."
"Filipino","Bad grass does not die easily."
"Filipino","Avoiding danger is not cowardice. Courage without discretion is no good."
"Filipino","Every community has its own customs and traditions."
"Filipino","Alertness and courage are life's shield."
"Filipino","A clear conscience is far more valuable than money."
"Filipino","A young branch can be straightened, a mature one breaks."
"Filipino","A year's care, a minute's ruin."
"Filipino","A sincere invitation is accompanied by a pull."
"Filipino","A person who is outwardly calm has anger raging inside."
"Filipino","A monkey dressed up is still a monkey."
"Filipino","A fly that lands on a carabao feels itself to be higher than the carabao."
"Filipino","A country without freedom is like a prisoner with shackled hands."
"Filipino","A broom is sturdy because its strands are tightly bound."
"Filipino","Laziness is the sibling of starvation."
"Filipino","A desperate person will even hold on to a knife edge."
"Filipino","An intelligent monkey can still be beaten."
"Filipino","If you plant, you harvest."
"Filipino","A brave man will face a situation no matter how dreadful."
"Filipino","It is never too late to offer anything that is good."
"Filipino","It is easier to dam a river than to stop the flow of gossip."
"Filipino","It is easy to be born, it is difficult to be a human being."
"Filipino","It is advantageous to follow advice, for you will succeed in life."
"Filipino","He who believes in hearsay does himself a disservice."
"Filipino","If you sow arrows, you will reap sorrows."
"Filipino","It is easy to be a man. It is hard to make oneself human."
"Filipino","If you persevere, you'll have stew."
"Filipino","If you make a habit of buying things you do not need, you will soon be selling things you do."
"Filipino","If you buy things you don't need, you will soon be selling things you do need."
"Filipino","He who gives alms to the poor faces heaven."
"Filipino","He who boasts of his accomplishments will heap ridicule on himself."
"Filipino","He who cackled is the guilty party."
"Filipino","If you stash, you have something to withdraw."
"Filipino","If you are going a long way, go slowly."
"Filipino","He who does not love their national language is worse than a putrid fish."
"Filipino","He who quits does not win, he who wins does not quit."
"Filipino","He who sowed wind, reaps a typhoon."
"Filipino","He who speaks too much works too little."
"Filipino","I love cheese and Pepsi, too."
"Filipino","If a bamboo tube makes a loud sound, it is empty."
"Filipino","If the horse is already dead more hay will not help it."
"Filipino","He who does not know to look where he came from will never get to his destination."
"Filipino","Loyalty is more valuable than diamonds."
"Finnish","Own home is worth gold."
"Finnish","Rain does not stay in the sky."
"Finnish","Roll me, don't curse me, said the stone to the ploughman."
"Finnish","Rather a man without a cow for the summer than without a wife for Christmas night."
"Finnish","Pride goes before the fall."
"Finnish","Praise your horse tomorrow, your son when he has a beard, your daughter when she is married and yourself never."
"Finnish","Poverty is no joy, although it sometimes makes you laugh."
"Finnish","Piss without farting, die without fucking."
"Finnish","Pissed off like a little squirrel with a frozen pine cone."
"Finnish","Send a child to do your errands, go do them yourself afterwards."
"Finnish","Siberia will teach."
"Finnish","Skill is not a heavy load to carry."
"Finnish","Sour said the fox about rowan berries."
"Finnish","Such things happen even to better folk."
"Finnish","Take a man by his word, take a bull by its horn."
"Finnish","That dog yelps, which stick hits."
"Finnish","The apple doesn't fall far from the tree."
"Finnish","The back has to pay for what the ears didn't hear."
"Finnish","The cheese betrays the milk."
"Finnish","No need to plough and sow madmen, they grow by themselves."
"Finnish","The child led by the hand never learns to walk."
"Finnish","The devil dances nowhere as much as between a couple."
"Finnish","The brave eat the soup, the timid die of hunger."
"Finnish","Never leave a mate behind."
"Finnish","Life is uncertain so eat your desert first."
"Finnish","Like two berries."
"Finnish","Water runs a whole mile downstream easier than an inch upstream."
"Finnish","The echo knows all languages."
"Finnish","Love blinds your eyes, marriage opens them wide."
"Finnish","Love came in a paper bag, said the maiden when she got a letter from her sweetheart."
"Finnish","Love is a garden full of flowers and marriage is a field of stinging nettles."
"Finnish","Many cakes are beautiful on the surface, but have crappy fillings."
"Finnish","Money talks all the way to heaven's door."
"Finnish","No one can climb a tree with no branches."
"Finnish","Never judge a reindeer from close by when you got it from a rich man because you may find that some of the antlers are missing."
"Finnish","Other land blueberry; own land strawberry."
"Finnish","No matter how misbehaved a child, the parents will accept."
"Finnish","No one can be an expected to be an expert at something before they have got the chance to practice it."
"Finnish","No one is a blacksmith when they are born."
"Finnish","No use crying at the market, sell your fur coat and drink the money."
"Finnish","On the gallows, the first night is the worst."
"Finnish","One cannot ski so softly that the tracks cannot be seen."
"Finnish","One sleeps like one makes his bed."
"Finnish","One stupid person asks more than ten wise ones can spare time answering."
"Finnish","One time after the denial."
"Finnish","One year ages the old, two years grow a child."
"Finnish","Money's for buying and a horse is for riding."
"Finnish","You always lose."
"Finnish","What adds to knowledge, adds to pain."
"Finnish","When a man remembers the land, the land remembers him."
"Finnish","When something has been denied of you, you can still do it once."
"Finnish","Who reaches for the spruce, falls down onto the juniper."
"Finnish","Who stands by the door of his house is not yet gone away."
"Finnish","Whose bread you eat, his songs you'll sing."
"Finnish","Wise in the morning is wiser in the evening."
"Finnish","With a walking-stick you reach many lands; you reach many more with words."
"Finnish","Work doesn't scare him, but he could lay down near it and sleep."
"Finnish","War does not determine who is right, only who is remaining."
"Finnish","Works like the train toilet."
"Finnish","Two do not think the same thoughts together."
"Finnish","You are not a man until you have plowed a field."
"Finnish","You can disguise wealth but you can't hide poverty."
"Finnish","You can't trust that a job will be done properly unless you do it yourself."
"Finnish","You don't get anywhere if you run in your thoughts."
"Finnish","You get a lot of these blows, said the busy bee when he flew against a brick wall."
"Finnish","You're just like a baby; one never knows what comes and when it comes."
"Finnish","Your memory can let you down like it did to a Finn who was carving a wooden spoon."
"Finnish","If there is someone to haul the fir-tree, there shall be no shortage of those willing to hold a branch to help."
"Finnish","Let's be quiet, we'll get some fish."
"Finnish","Work earns a living but trade makes you rich."
"Finnish","The winter does not go without looking backward."
"Finnish","The fate of the Gypsy's horse."
"Finnish","The forest will answer you in the way you call to it."
"Finnish","The frost drives the pig home."
"Finnish","The lazy sweat when they eat and complain of the cold when they work."
"Finnish","The memories of one's youth make for long, long thoughts."
"Finnish","The mocked may grow up to dignity, but the mocker will never outgrow his juvenile behaviour."
"Finnish","The old cow forgets that she was once a calf."
"Finnish","The poor can't afford to buy cheap."
"Finnish","The pot reproaching the kettle."
"Finnish","Wet your finger in tar and soon it is all over you."
"Finnish","The water is the same on both sides of the boat."
"Finnish","Water is the oldest medicine."
"Finnish","The winter does not leave without a backward glance."
"Finnish","The wise man will be cheated only once."
"Finnish","The wise person is only cheated once."
"Finnish","The world is a good teacher, but it charges a huge fee."
"Finnish","There's a man who looks like a partridge with legs like a mosquito."
"Finnish","Time goes on while life runs out."
"Finnish","To an optimist every weed is a flower; to a pessimist every flower is a weed."
"Finnish","To be in love is to feel the sun from both sides."
"Finnish","Two are holy: a church and a sauna."
"Finnish","The elderly, even if deaf and blind, still know a lot."
"Finnish","The walking-stick reaches many lands, the word many more."
"Finnish","Cow's diets have never been sustained on grass grown in May."
"Finnish","Even a pigeon has a pussy"
"Finnish","An honest man would rather sell his land than tell a lie."
"Finnish","As we grow older our bad qualities make us younger."
"Finnish","Be always a little afraid so that you never have need of being much afraid."
"Finnish","Being in love is like feeling the sun from both sides."
"Finnish","Better ice that melts than fire that extinguishes."
"Finnish","Better one hazel grouse in the bag, than ten on the branch."
"Finnish","Big words won't split ones mouth."
"Finnish","Buy, buy, the children will pay the debts."
"Finnish","Always exist branch grabbers, when exist fir-tree haulers."
"Finnish","Closeness without conflict only exists in the cemetery."
"Finnish","All that glitters is not gold, nor all that sparkles silver."
"Finnish","Cowardice will not prolong life."
"Finnish","Disappears like a fart into Sahara."
"Finnish","Disappears without trace."
"Finnish","Do it today! Tomorrow it might be forbidden."
"Finnish","Don't judge a dog by its hair."
"Finnish","Don't paint the devil on the wall."
"Finnish","Don't paint the image of a demon on a wall."
"Finnish","Don't raise your club so high; it will only fall on your head."
"Finnish","Eat, and small ills disappear."
"Finnish","End well, all well."
"Finnish","Cleanliness is half a meal."
"Finnish","A married man has many sorrows -- an unmarried man has one more."
"Finnish","Keeping yourself and your food clean, you'll get more from it."
"Finnish","If you borrow some chaff from the rich man you have to repay him with wheat."
"Finnish","A bird in the hand is worth ten in the bush."
"Finnish","A cat lives on praise, a dog by pats on the head."
"Finnish","A child is like an axe; even if it hurts, you stil carry them on your shoulders."
"Finnish","A Finn doesn?t believe before he has seen."
"Finnish","A good bell is heard from far, a bad one still further."
"Finnish","A good deal for two, is a clip on the ears of a third."
"Finnish","A little bit of experience is better than a barrel full of knowledge."
"Finnish","An empty barn needs no roof."
"Finnish","A man without a wife is like a field without a fence."
"Finnish","A town takes your money though your pockets be empty."
"Finnish","A month from a skylark, a half from a finch, a little from a wagtail and not a day from a swallow."
"Finnish","A new day shows a new way."
"Finnish","A sauna -- the poor man's pharmacy."
"Finnish","A sauna makes a woman most beautiful one hour after the bath."
"Finnish","A soldier's no boor though no gentleman either."
"Finnish","A widow, like a widower, is a house without a roof."
"Finnish","A willing helper comes without asking."
"Finnish","Actions have consequences."
"Finnish","Age does not give sense it only makes one go slowly."
"Finnish","Age does not give you good sense, it only makes you go slowly."
"Finnish","A man is valued by his work, not his words."
"Finnish","If you reach for something that is far too good for you, it is not going to end well."
"Finnish","He who shares the meat is always left with the bone."
"Finnish","Help the man climbing a hill, not the one standing below it."
"Finnish","Hope for miracles, but don't rely on one happening."
"Finnish","Hurry, and you'll get only shithead kids."
"Finnish","I love others too, but I love myself more."
"Finnish","If a man knew where he would fall, he would spread straw there first."
"Finnish","If a sauna, whiskey and tar do not help, the disease is fatal."
"Finnish","If tar, hard liquor and sauna do not cure; the disease is fatal."
"Finnish","If the bathroom and a brandy cannot help a man, then death is imminent."
"Finnish","He who praises the past blames the present."
"Finnish","If you have ploughed with oxen, married a widow and never said a bad word - surely you go to heaven."
"Finnish","If you can not find peace within yourself, it is useless to look elsewhere."
"Finnish","If you're short of trouble take a goat."
"Finnish","In a trade someone always loses."
"Finnish","In heaven you wont hear the mosquitoes."
"Finnish","In sunshine the dust is seen."
"Finnish","Even a poor man owns the sun and the stars."
"Finnish","A snotnose may grow up to be a man; but he who laughs without cause, never."
"Finnish","It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks."
"Finnish","Judge not the dog by its hair."
"Finnish","It is the dog which is hit by the tossed stick, which yelps."
"Finnish","If vodka, tar and sauna don't help, the disease leads to death."
"Finnish","From small beginnings could come great things."
"Finnish","Even a stupid one seems wise if he keeps his mouth shut."
"Finnish","Even a small star shines in the darkness."
"Finnish","Even the crow sings with its own voice."
"Finnish","Everyone knows the bear, but the bear knows no one."
"Finnish","He who lies thrice believes he's told the truth."
"Finnish","Everything is beautiful once the eye likes the view."
"Finnish","Express yourself earnestly, and you have no reason for shame even if you lack talent."
"Finnish","Even the clock shows the time without knowing anything."
"Finnish","Foreign places are nice enough, but home is sweeter."
"Finnish","From the ditch to the water jump."
"Finnish","God did not create haste."
"Finnish","Happiness is a place between too little and too much."
"Finnish","He who cannot light a fire knows nothing about love."
"Finnish","God never says no to grand thoughts."
"Finnish","He who asks won't lose his way."
"Finnish","Great things often come from small beginnings."
"Finnish","He needs a long candle who awaits the death of another."
"Finnish","Harmony creates accommodation."
"Finnish","Father's goodness is higher than the mountains. Mother's goodness is deeper than the sea."
"Finnish","Happens in better families too."
"Finnish","Happiness does not come from happiness itself, but from the journey towards achieving it."
"Finnish","God did not create hurry."
"Finnish","God did not create hurry."
"Finnish","If a man knew where he would fall, he would spread straw there first."
"Finnish","The forest will answer you in the way you call to it."
"Finnish","The water is the same on both sides of the boat."
"Flemish","What is said when the drunk has been thought out beforehand."
"Flemish","Honor is better than honors."
"Flemish","Honor is better than honors."
"Flemish","What is said when drunk has been thought out beforehand."
"French","Everything goes to him who wants nothing."
"French","We never know the worth of water till the well is dry."
"French","A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple."
"French","What was hard to endure is sweet to recall."
"French","When glory comes, loss of memory follows."
"French","Choose a wife with your ears, not your eyes."
"French","Everyone thinks his own burden heavy."
"French","What is true by firelight is not always true by daylight."
"French","When we cannot get what we love, we must love what is within our reach."
"French","Beauty without virtue is as a flower without perfume."
"French","Who punishes one threatens a hundred."
"French","There is one who kisses, and the other who offers a cheek."
"French","Patience is bitter, but the fruit is sweet."
"French","People count up the faults of those who keep them waiting."
"French","Pray, pray very much; but beware of telling God what you want."
"French","Quarrels do not last long if the wrong is only on one side."
"French","Ready money works great cures."
"French","Soft words scald not the tongue."
"French","Set a thief to catch a thief."
"French","There is a pinch of the madman in every great man."
"French","One meets his destiny often in the road he takes to avoid it."
"French","There is no pillow so soft as a clear conscience."
"French","Love makes time pass; time makes love pass."
"French","There is no such thing as an insignificant enemy."
"French","We know the worth of a thing when we have lost it."
"French","Think much, speak little, write less."
"French","He who takes a partner takes a master."
"French","To compare is not to prove."
"French","To want to forget something is to remember it."
"French","He that does not ask will never get a bargain."
"French","He is rich who owes nothing."
"French","Travellers from afar can lie with impunity."
"French","Gratitude is the heart's memory."
"French","Follow the river and you will find the sea."
"French","Wait until it is night before saying that it has been a fine day."
"French","There is no pride like that of a beggar grown rich."
"French","Good swimmers are drowned at last."
"French","Gratitude is the heart's memory."
"French","Grass will not grow on a volcano."
"French","Gossipers are the devil's trumpeters."
"French","Goodness is the only investment that never fails."
"French","Good wine needs no vine."
"French","Good wine needs no sign."
"French","Save a thief from the gallows and he will cut your throat."
"French","Good watching drives away ill-luck."
"French","Gray and green make the worst medley."
"French","Good repute is better than a golden belt."
"French","Good nature without prudence is foolishness."
"French","Good morrow spectacles, farewell lasses."
"French","Good land should not be quitted for a bad landlord."
"French","Good comes to better, and better to bad."
"French","Good blood will never lie."
"French","Good wine makes the horse go."
"French","Great talkers are not great doers."
"French","Saint cannot if God will not."
"French","Half an egg is better than an empty eggcup."
"French","Greedy eaters dig their graves with their teeth."
"French","Greater qualities are needed to bear good fortune than bad."
"French","Great boaster, little doer."
"French","Great thieves hang little thieves."
"French","Gratitude is the heart's money."
"French","Great talkers, little doers."
"French","Gratitude is the least of virtues, but ingratitude the worst of vices."
"French","Great talker, great liar."
"French","Great scholars are not the shrewdest men."
"French","Great disputing repels truth."
"French","Great boasters, little doers."
"French","Something is better than nothing."
"French","Grease a churl's boots and he'll say you are burning them."
"French","Golden bishop, wooden crosier; wooden bishop, golden crosier."
"French","From confessors, doctors, and lawyers, do not conceal the truth of your case."
"French","Give him a foot and he'll take four."
"French","Good bargains are ruinous."
"French","Glutton: one who digs his grave with his teeth."
"French","Glutton: one who digs his grave with his teeth."
"French","Glutton: one who digs his grave with his teeth."
"French","Glutton: one who digs his grave with his teeth."
"French","Glow worms are not lanterns."
"French","God alone understands fools."
"French","Give me the rhubarb and you may take the senna."
"French","God and man think him a fool who brags of his of his own great wisdom."
"French","Get out of that place and let me take it."
"French","Gentleness does more than violence."
"French","Garlic by the savour, bread by the colour."
"French","Gambling is the son of avarice and the father of despair."
"French","From word to deed is a great space."
"French","From to-morrow till to-morrow time goes a long journey."
"French","From short pleasure long repentance."
"French","Give out that you have many friends, and believe that you have but few."
"French","God often visits us, but most of the time we are not at home."
"French","Great wits meet."
"French","God's work is soon done."
"French","God visits us, but most of the time we are not at home."
"French","God visits us often, but most of the time we are not home."
"French","God saves the moon from the wolves."
"French","God save you from a man who has but one business."
"French","Gluttony has killed more than the sword."
"French","God puts a good root in the little pig's way."
"French","Good advice is often annoying -- bad advice never is."
"French","God made hands before knives."
"French","God knows who is a good pilgrim."
"French","God is on the side of the strongest battalions."
"French","God helps three sorts of people: fools, children and drunkards."
"French","God helps him who helps himself."
"French","God heals, and the physician takes the fee."
"French","God gives the cold according to the cloth."
"French","God save me from those I trust in."
"French","So many men, so many opinions."
"French","Small wells are better to quench your thirst."
"French","Some thinking to avenge their shame increase it."
"French","Some think they have done when they are only beginning."
"French","Some sell and don't deliver."
"French","Some have fine eyes and can't see a jot."
"French","Some have bread who have no teeth left."
"French","Some who mean only to warm, burn themselves."
"French","Soft words don't scotch the tongue."
"French","Sometimes the cry of the animal is worse than the animal itself."
"French","Great thieves always have their sleeves full of gags."
"French","So many mates; so many enemies."
"French","Saving is getting."
"French","Snivelling folks always want to wipe other folks' noses."
"French","Snarling curs never want sore ears."
"French","Snakes prefer to hide under flowers."
"French","Smoke, floods, and a troublesome wife, are enough to drive a man out of his life."
"French","Some fathers love another man's daughter most."
"French","Starlings are skinny because they fly in a group."
"French","Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof."
"French","Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof."
"French","Stupidity is too often beauty's imperfection."
"French","Strike while the iron is hot."
"French","Store is no sore."
"French","Stolen waters are sweet."
"French","Young people tell what they are doing, old people what they have done and fools what they wish to do."
"French","Stolen bread stirs the appetite."
"French","So long as the wolf is captured the dog will bite his leg."
"French","Spur not a willing horse."
"French","Spit not in the well, you may have to drink its water."
"French","Speak little and well if you wish to be esteemed a person of merit."
"French","Spare well and have to spend."
"French","Spare to speak and spare to speed."
"French","Soon gained soon squandered."
"French","Soon enough if well enough."
"French","Stolen fruit is sweet."
"French","Set your sail according to the wind."
"French","Show me a liar, and I'll show you a thief."
"French","Self -- love is the worst of all flattery."
"French","Short reckonings make long friends."
"French","Shoemakers are always the worst shod."
"French","Shear the sheep but don't flay them."
"French","So many mists in March, so many frosts in May."
"French","Setting out well is a quarter of the journey."
"French","Set your sail to the wind."
"French","Scratch people where they itch."
"French","See a pin and let it lie, you'll want a pin before you die."
"French","See a pin and pick it up, all the day you'll have good luck; see a pin and let it lie, bad luck you'll have all day."
"French","Set hard heart against hard hap."
"French","Set a thief to catch a thief."
"French","Seekers of art; finders of the beggar's bag."
"French","Serve as a serf or fly like a deer."
"French","So many men, so many minds."
"French","Saying well causes a laugh; doing well produces silence."
"French","Small profits are good if they come often."
"French","Small people always cast big shadows."
"French","Small gifts maintain friendship, big ones maintain love."
"French","Small brooks make big rivers."
"French","Slanderers are the devil's bellows, to blow up contention."
"French","Slander! slander! some of it always sticks."
"French","Suspicion always haunts the guilty party."
"French","Skeptics are never deceived."
"French","Six things have no business in the world: a fighting priest, a coward knight, a covetous judge, a stinking barber, a soft-hearted mother, and an itchy baker."
"French","Since the wine is drawn it must be drunk."
"French","Silence is the soul of all things."
"French","Sickness comes in like a horse and leaves like a snail."
"French","Real love is when you don't have to tell each other."
"French","Ready money works great cures."
"French","Quarrels do not last long if the wrong is only on one side."
"French","Put the belfry in the middle of the village."
"French","Put something sweet in his mouth and send good news to the heart."
"French","Punctuality is the soul of business."
"French","Poverty is not a vice."
"French","Punctuality is the sole of business."
"French","Rather a single grape for me than a brace of figs for thee."
"French","Rats desert a sinking ship."
"French","Punctuality is the politeness of princes."
"French","Ravens do not peck out raven's eyes."
"French","Rage avails less than courage."
"French","Precious ointments are put in small boxes."
"French","Possession is as good as a title."
"French","Possession is nine points of the law."
"French","Possession is nine tenths of the law."
"French","Take a woman's first advice and not her second."
"French","Really to stop criticism one must die."
"French","Poverty is a sort of leprosy."
"French","Pray, pray very much; but beware of telling God what you want."
"French","Possession is the grave of pleasure."
"French","Pulling the devil by the tail does not lead far young or old."
"French","Prices are forgotten, quality remains."
"French","Pride can only lose."
"French","Princes keep good reckoning, they never lose anything."
"French","Princes use men as the husbandman uses bees."
"French","Princes will not be served on conditions."
"French","Promising and performing are two things."
"French","Praise the sea, and keep on land."
"French","Take down a rogue from the gallows and he will hang you up."
"French","Sussex won't be druv."
"French","Sailors get to know each other better when there is a storm."
"French","Suspicion is the poison of friendship."
"French","Swim on and don't trust."
"French","Take an ox by his horn, a man by his word."
"French","Rust wastes more than use."
"French","Take away my good name, take away my life."
"French","Riches serve a wise man, but command a fool."
"French","Take heed of an enemy reconciled."
"French","Take heed of an ox before. an ass behind, and a monk on all sides."
"French","Tasty is the chicken that is fed by someone else."
"French","Talk of the wolf and you see his tail."
"French","Popularity is the small change of glory."
"French","One never gets more than one's money's worth of anything."
"French","Take away fuel, take away flame."
"French","Repentance costs dear."
"French","Reasonable people can differ."
"French","Reasonings banish reason."
"French","Rebukes ought not to have a grain more of salt than of sugar."
"French","Reckless youth makes rueful age."
"French","Religious contention is the devil's harvest."
"French","Sadness and gladness succeed each other."
"French","Remember that everyone you ever meet is sure to fear something, to love something, and to have lost something."
"French","Reason not with the great, 'tis a perilous gate."
"French","Repentance costs very dear."
"French","Repute hangs a man."
"French","Rich garments weep on unworthy shoulders."
"French","Rich people eat gold and shit lead."
"French","Rich people never know who their friends are."
"French","Riches run after the rich, and poverty runs after the poor."
"French","Remember that everyone you ever meet is sure to fear something, to love something, and to have lost something."
"French","The ill year comes in swimming."
"French","The chicken that crows the loudest does not always give the biggest eggs."
"French","One never goes so far as when one don't know whither one is going."
"French","Tell a woman once she is beautiful and the devil will repeat it ten times."
"French","One scabby sheep is enough to spoil the whole flock."
"French","One should choose a wife with the ears, rather than with the eyes."
"French","Opportunity makes the thief."
"French","One swallow does not make a spring."
"French","One must step back to make the better leap."
"French","One take-this, is better than two thou-shalt-haves."
"French","One tale is good till another is told."
"French","Only a fool gets drunk from his own bottle."
"French","Only great men may have great faults."
"French","Only he who does nothing makes no mistakes."
"French","One often has need of a lesser than oneself."
"French","The interested friend is a swallow on the roof."
"French","One must be either anvil or hammer."
"French","One may as well be well beaten as badly beaten."
"French","One may better steal a horse than another look over the hedge."
"French","One may buy gold too dear."
"French","One may go a long way after one is tired."
"French","One may steal nothing save a lawyer's purse."
"French","One may tire of eating tarts."
"French","One nail drives out another."
"French","One might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb."
"French","One must talk soothingly to the dog until one has passed him."
"French","One must howl with the wolves."
"French","One must learn to be bored."
"French","One must lose a minnow to catch a salmon."
"French","One must needs like what one cannot hinder."
"French","One must pass through the door or the window."
"French","Opportunity never knocks twice at any man's door."
"French","One meets his destiny often in the road he takes to avoid it."
"French","People make the bells say what they please."
"French","Patience is the virtue of asses."
"French","Patience is the virtue of the donkeys."
"French","Penny wise is often pound foolish."
"French","People always make the wolf more formidable than he is."
"French","People count the faults of those who keep them waiting."
"French","Only he who does nothing makes no mistakes."
"French","People lend only to the rich."
"French","Partir, c'est mourir un peu."
"French","People take more pains to be damned than to be saved."
"French","People who have bread to eat do not appreciate the severity of a famine."
"French","People will ignore their misfortunes and their interests when they are in competition with their pleasures."
"French","Pick and choose, and take the worst."
"French","Pills must be swallowed without chewing."
"French","Pity is akin to love."
"French","People count up the faults of those who keep them waiting."
"French","Out with the old, in with the new."
"French","Opportunity only knocks once."
"French","Other times, other manners."
"French","Our hairs are numbered."
"French","Out of sight out of mind."
"French","Out of the fullness of the heart the mouth speaks."
"French","Out of the fulness of the heart the mouth speaketh."
"French","Patience is bitter, but the fruit is sweet."
"French","Out of yes and no comes all dispute."
"French","Patience is bitter but its fruits are sweet."
"French","Paper bears anything."
"French","Paris is owned by the early risers."
"French","Paris was not built in a day."
"French","Paris wasn't made in a day."
"French","Parsley seed goes nine times to the Devil."
"French","Policy goes beyond strength."
"French","Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee."
"French","The flawed pot lasts longest."
"French","The devil was so fond of his children that he plucked out their eyes."
"French","The first blow is as good as two."
"French","The first comer grinds first."
"French","The first half of life is spent in longing for the second, the second half in regretting the first."
"French","The first love letters are written with the eyes."
"French","The false friend is like the shadow of a sun-dial."
"French","The first step is all the difficulty."
"French","The eye of the master fattens the steed."
"French","The fool cuts himself with his own knife."
"French","The fool hunts for misfortune."
"French","The fool who is silent passes for wise."
"French","The fool's mother is always pregnant."
"French","The fox says of the mulberries when he cannot get at them; they are not good at all."
"French","The fox that sleeps in the morning has not his tongue feathered."
"French","The first step binds one to the second."
"French","The early bird catches the worm."
"French","The cat is nature's beauty."
"French","The doctor is often more to be feared than the disease."
"French","The dog gets into the mill under cover of the ass."
"French","The dog may be wonderful prose, but only the cat is poetry."
"French","The eagle does not hunt flies."
"French","The fault is great in proportion to him who commits it."
"French","The early bird catches the early worm."
"French","The Fox's wiles will never enter the lion's head."
"French","The early bird catcheth the worm."
"French","The early man never borrows from the late man."
"French","The early riser is healthy, cheerful and industrious."
"French","The Emperor of Germany is the king of kings, the King of Spain king of men, the King of France king of asses, the King of England king of devils."
"French","The end crowns the work."
"French","The end justifies the means."
"French","The ear is the road to the heart."
"French","The higher the ape climbs the more he shows his rump."
"French","The greatest king must at last go to bed with a shovel."
"French","The handsomest woman can only give what she has."
"French","The have always returns to her form."
"French","The head and feet keep warm; the rest will take no harm."
"French","The heart leads whither it goes."
"French","The fox thinks everybody eats poultry like himself."
"French","The hen's eyes are with her chickens."
"French","The greatest cunning is to have none at all."
"French","The higher the rise the greater the fall."
"French","The highest branch is not the safest roost."
"French","The horse that draws most is most whipped."
"French","The hunchback does not see his own hump, but he sees his brother's."
"French","Love does wonders, but money makes marriages."
"French","One man, no man."
"French","The hen ought not to cackle in presence of the cock."
"French","The goslings would lead the geese out to grass."
"French","The devil was sick, the Devil a saint would be; the Devil was well, the devil a saint was he."
"French","The French work to live, but the Swiss live to work."
"French","The friends of our friends are our friends."
"French","The friendship of a great man is like the shadow of a bush -- soon gone."
"French","The future belongs to the man who rises early."
"French","The game is not worth the candle."
"French","The greatest hate springs from the greatest love."
"French","The Germans carry their wit in their fingers."
"French","The greatest evidence of demoralization is the respect paid to wealth."
"French","The gown does not make the monk."
"French","The gown is hers that wears it; and the world is his who enjoys it."
"French","The graveyards are full of young lawyers, lost inheritance and young doctors."
"French","The great thieves lead away the little thieves."
"French","The greatest burdens are not the gainfullest."
"French","The fox thrives best when he is most cursed."
"French","The gentle hawk mans herself."
"French","The benefice must be taken with its liabilities."
"French","The devil's meal turns half to bran."
"French","The beadle of the parish is always of the vicar's opinion."
"French","The beast dead, the venom is dead."
"French","The beaten pay the fine."
"French","The beauty of a woman does not make a man richer."
"French","The balance in doing its office knows neither gold nor lead."
"French","The belly robs the back."
"French","The bagpipe never utters a work till its belly is full."
"French","The best company must part, as King Dagobert said to his hounds."
"French","The best driver will sometimes upset."
"French","The best herbs are in the smallest bags."
"French","The best soup is made of old meat."
"French","The best thing about a man is his dog."
"French","The best wine has its lees."
"French","The belly overrules the head."
"French","The absent are always in the wrong."
"French","Tell me whom you frequent, and I will tell you who you are."
"French","That brings water to the mill."
"French","That day is lost on which one has not laughed."
"French","That is done soon enough which is well done."
"French","That often happens in a day which does not happen in a hundred years."
"French","The ball always looks for the best player."
"French","The abbey does not fail for want on one monk."
"French","The better day the better deed."
"French","The arguments of the strongest have always the most weight."
"French","The art is to eat it with taste."
"French","The art of pleasing is the art of deceiving."
"French","The ass that is common property is always the worst saddled."
"French","The attack tames the beast."
"French","The bad man thinks that everybody looks like him."
"French","That which proves too much, proves nothing."
"French","The devil is not always at a poor man's door."
"French","The coalheaver is master at home."
"French","The cobbler always wears the worst shoes."
"French","The common property donkey is the worst saddled."
"French","The communal donkey gets the heaviest burden."
"French","The corn falls out of a shaken sheaf."
"French","The best you get is an even break."
"French","The dead are soon forgotten."
"French","The churl knows not the worth of spurs."
"French","The devil leads him by the nose who the dice too often throws."
"French","The devil may die without my inheriting his horns."
"French","The devil often lurks behind the cross."
"French","The devil rebukes sin."
"French","The devil sweetens another man's wife with a spoonful of honey."
"French","The devil was handsome when he was young."
"French","The days follow each other and are not alike."
"French","The busiest men have the most leisure."
"French","Tell me the company you keep, and I will tell you who you are."
"French","The big fish eat the little ones."
"French","The bird ought not to soil its own nest."
"French","The biter is often bit."
"French","The blade wears out the sheath."
"French","The bleating of the lamb merely arouses the tiger."
"French","The clever wife makes her husband an apron."
"French","The burden tames the beast."
"French","The city that negotiates is half conquered."
"French","The candle that goes before, is better than that which comes after."
"French","The cart ruins the road, the woman the man, the water the wine."
"French","The cask always smells of the herring."
"French","The cassock does not make the monk."
"French","The chicken sings what the cock teaches him."
"French","The best-laid schemes of mice and men gang aft agley."
"French","The bud becomes a rose and the rose a hip."
"French","Money makes even dogs dance."
"French","Men count up the faults of those who keep them waiting."
"French","Money borrowed is soon sorrowed."
"French","Money burns many."
"French","Money is a good servant but a had master."
"French","Money is lost only for want of money."
"French","Mistrust is the mother of certainty."
"French","Money makes dogs dance."
"French","Misfortunes, when asleep, are not to be awakened."
"French","Money makes money."
"French","Money makes the mare to go."
"French","More flies are caught with honey than with vinegar."
"French","Most men employ the earlier part of their life to make the other miserable."
"French","Mother's love is ever in its spring."
"French","Mother-in-law and daughter-in-law can be cooked together but they will never be tender."
"French","Money is round, it must roll."
"French","Might overcomes right."
"French","Love is often the fruit of marriage."
"French","Men make laws; women make morals."
"French","Men will only throw stones at trees that are laden with fruit."
"French","Men's ignorance makes the pot boil for priests."
"French","Men's skins have many colors, but human blood is always red."
"French","Money advances meacocks."
"French","Might knows no right."
"French","Much worship, much cost."
"French","Misfortune comes on horseback and goes away on foot."
"French","Misfortune upon misfortune is not wholesome."
"French","Misfortunes are, in morals, what bitters are in medicine: each is at first disagreeable; but as the bitters act as corroborants to the stomach, so adversity chastens and ameliorates the disposition."
"French","Misfortunes come on horseback and depart on foot."
"French","Misfortunes never come single."
"French","Misfortunes that can't be avoided must be sweetened."
"French","Mention not a rope in the house of one whose father was hanged."
"French","Never trust a woman who mentions her virtue."
"French","Never say, Fountain, I will not drink of thy water."
"French","Never seemed prison fair, or mistress foul."
"French","Never sell the bearskin till you have killed the bear."
"French","Never send a boy to do a man's job."
"French","Never share a foxhole with anyone braver than you are."
"French","Much kindred, much trouble."
"French","Never speak of a rope in the house of one who was hanged."
"French","Never limp before the lame."
"French","New lords, new laws."
"French","Night has no friend."
"French","Night is the mother of councils."
"French","Nine tailors make a man."
"French","Nip sin in the bud."
"French","Nip the briar in the bud."
"French","Never speak of a rope in the family of one who has been hanged."
"French","Necessity is the mother of invention."
"French","Men are rare."
"French","Much would have more, and lost all."
"French","Muddied water does not reflect."
"French","Muddy springs will have muddy streams."
"French","Naught must disturb a man of worth at dinner."
"French","Naught venture, naught have."
"French","Never put your finger between the tree and the bark."
"French","Necessity has no law."
"French","Never look for a worm in the apple of your eye."
"French","Need makes the old woman trot."
"French","Never challenge a fool to do wrong."
"French","Never choose your women or linen by candlelight."
"French","Never cross a bridge till you come to it."
"French","Never did capon love a hen."
"French","Much memory and little judgment."
"French","Near is my kirkle, but nearer is my smock."
"French","Love does much, money everything."
"French","Men eat fish -- thanks to the sauce."
"French","Long talk makes short days."
"French","Long tongue, short hand."
"French","Look not a gift horse in the mouth."
"French","Look not out for dead men's shoes."
"French","Long absence changes friends."
"French","Love Bertrand love his dog."
"French","Loaves put awry into the oven come out crooked."
"French","Too much scratching smarts, too much talking harms."
"French","Love expels jealousy."
"French","The Italians cry, the Germans bawl, and the French sing."
"French","Love is the dawn of marriage, and marriage is the sunset of love."
"French","Love makes the time pass. Time makes love pass."
"French","Love makes time pass away, and time makes love pass away."
"French","Love and lordship like no fellowship."
"French","Link by link the coat of mail is made."
"French","Like box-makers, more noise than work."
"French","Like breeds like."
"French","Like master, like man."
"French","Like saint like incense."
"French","Like will to like."
"French","Long on hair, short on brains."
"French","Lilies are whitest in a blackmoor's hand."
"French","Love never dies of starvation, but often of indigestion."
"French","Lion-skins were never had cheap."
"French","Little brooks make great rivers."
"French","Little by little the bird builds its nest."
"French","Little pitchers have long ears."
"French","Little presents maintain friendship."
"French","Loaning money causes loss of memory."
"French","Likeness is the mother of love."
"French","Marry in May, rue for aye."
"French","Marriage is a lottery."
"French","Marriage teaches you to live alone."
"French","Marriages are written in heaven."
"French","Marriages sealed with rings end with drawn knives."
"French","Married to-day, married to-morrow."
"French","Love makes time pass; time makes love pass."
"French","Marry in haste repent at leisure."
"French","Many a one suffers for what he can't help."
"French","Marry your son when you please, your daughter when you can."
"French","Mastiff never liked greyhound."
"French","Maturity consists of no longer being taken in by oneself."
"French","May and December never agree."
"French","May chickens come cheeping."
"French","Mean fathers, wasteful sons."
"French","Marry in haste and repent at leisure."
"French","Man is fire, woman is tow, and the devil comes and blows."
"French","No dish pleases all palates alike."
"French","Love subdues everything except the recreant's heart."
"French","Love teaches asses to dance."
"French","Love teaches even asses to dance."
"French","Love, a cough, and smoke will not remain secret."
"French","Love, a cough, smoke, and money, cannot long be hid."
"French","Many enter the wood without an axe."
"French","Make yourself a sheep and the wolf will eat you."
"French","Many are esteemed, only because they are not known."
"French","Man is not man, but a wolf to those he does not know."
"French","Man is preceded by forest and followed by desert."
"French","Man is the only mammal that can be skinned more than once."
"French","Manual jokes are clown's jokes."
"French","Many a one is good because he can do no mischief."
"French","Love me little and love me long."
"French","Loving with the eyes only, has blinded a lot of fools."
"French","One always knocks oneself in the sore place."
"French","No clock is more regular than the belly."
"French","Old love and old brands kindle at all seasons."
"French","Old reckonings breed new disputes."
"French","Old sins, new shame."
"French","On a fool's beard the barber learns to shave."
"French","Old cats love young mice."
"French","One ""take this"" is worth more than two ""you shall have""."
"French","Of two lookers on one is sure to become a player."
"French","One always returns to one's first love."
"French","One bad general is better than two good ones."
"French","One barber shears another."
"French","One beggar at the door is enough."
"French","One blind man leads another into the ditch."
"French","One can't hinder the wind from blowing."
"French","Once is no custom."
"French","Nothing so bold as a miller's shirt."
"French","Nothing is more ridiculous or troublesome than mere ceremony."
"French","Nothing is so burdensome as a secret."
"French","Nothing is so burthensome as a secret."
"French","Nothing is so liberally given as advice."
"French","Nothing is such a heavy burden as a secret is."
"French","Old friends and new reckonings."
"French","Nothing resembles an honest man more than a cheat."
"French","One cannot be and have been."
"French","Nothing so good as forbidden fruit."
"French","Nothing speaks more eloquently than money."
"French","Nothing stake, nothing draw."
"French","Nothing to be got without pains but poverty."
"French","Nothing venture, nothing gain."
"French","Of little cloth but a short cloak."
"French","Nothing looks more like an honest man than a villain."
"French","One has always strength enough to bear the misfortunes of one's friends."
"French","One for sorrow; two for mirth; three for a wedding; four for a birth."
"French","One for the mouse, one for the crow, one to rot, one to grow."
"French","One good argument is worth more than ten better ones."
"French","One good turn deserves another."
"French","One grows used to love and to fire."
"French","One can't make head or tail of it."
"French","One half the world laughs at the other."
"French","One flower will not make a garland."
"French","One hour's sleep before midnight is better than three after it."
"French","One is never so rich as when one removes."
"French","One is never soiled but by filth."
"French","One is rated by others as he rates himself."
"French","One knows not for whom he gathers."
"French","One learns by failing."
"French","One half the world knows not how the other half lives."
"French","One deceit brings on another."
"French","Nothing is more elegant than ready money."
"French","One cannot be at the oven and the mill at the same time."
"French","One cannot be in two places at once."
"French","One cannot please everybody and one's father."
"French","One cannot ring the bells and walk in the procession."
"French","One catches more flies with a spoonful of honey than with twenty casks of vinegar."
"French","One foot is better then two stilts."
"French","One day is as good as two for the person who does everything in its place."
"French","One fool always finds a greater fool to admire him."
"French","One does not always hit what one aims at."
"French","One dog's piss will not pollute the ocean."
"French","One finds little ingratitude so long as one is in a position to grant favors."
"French","One flower does not make a garland."
"French","One flower maketh not a bouquet."
"French","One candle for St. Michael, and another for his devil."
"French","One day is as good as two for him who does everything in its place."
"French","No one ever saw a goat dead of hunger."
"French","No man understands knavery better than the abbot who has been a monk."
"French","No money no Swiss."
"French","No moon, no man."
"French","No more teachers, no more books, no more teacher's dirty looks."
"French","No names, no pack-drill."
"French","No one will get a bargain he does not ask for."
"French","No one became poor by giving alms."
"French","No man is a prophet in his own country."
"French","No one is as generous as he who has nothing to give."
"French","No one is bound to do impossibilities."
"French","No one is expected to achieve the impossible."
"French","No one is satisfied with his fortune, nor dissatisfied with his intellect."
"French","No one is so generous as he who has nothing to give."
"French","Nothing is more like an honest man than a rogue."
"French","No news is good news."
"French","No jesting with edged tools."
"French","One man alone is prey to the wolf."
"French","No feast like a miser's."
"French","No fine clothes can hide the clown."
"French","No fire without smoke."
"French","No fishing like fishing in the sea."
"French","No flies get into a shut mouth."
"French","Youth must be served."
"French","No grass grows on a beaten road."
"French","No man is an island, but some of us are long peninsulas."
"French","No living man all things can."
"French","No lock avails against a hatchet."
"French","No lock will hold against the power of gold."
"French","No longer pipe, no longer dance."
"French","No man is a hero in the eyes of his valet."
"French","No one with a good catch of fish goes home by the back alley."
"French","No good dog barks without reason."
"French","Nothing is easy to the unwilling."
"French","Nothing dries so fast as tears."
"French","Nothing equals the joy of the drinker, except the joy of the wine in being drunk."
"French","Nothing falls into the mouth of a sleeping fox."
"French","Nothing grows old sooner than a kindness."
"French","Nothing happens for nothing."
"French","No one is so liberal as he who has nothing to give."
"French","Nothing is done while something remains undone."
"French","Not every thunderclap is followed by lightning."
"French","Nothing is given as easily as advice."
"French","Nothing is had for nothing."
"French","Nothing is impossible to a willing mind."
"French","Nothing is more contagious than a bad example."
"French","Nothing is more easily blotted out than a good turn."
"French","No day so long but has its evening."
"French","Nothing is as burdensome as a secret."
"French","None are more haughty than a common place person raised to power."
"French","No person is too old to learn."
"French","No purchase like a gift."
"French","No rose without a thorn."
"French","No sauce like appetite."
"French","No wind can do him good who steers for no port."
"French","No wind is of service to him that is bound for nowhere."
"French","Nothing ages more than a good deed."
"French","Nobility is nothing but ancient riches, and money is the world's idol."
"French","Not until the tree is felled can you see how tall it was."
"French","None so busy as those who do nothing."
"French","None so deaf as those who won't hear."
"French","Not every dog that barks bites."
"French","Not every one that dances is glad."
"French","Not every sort of wood is fit to make an arrow."
"French","Nothing is more expensive than the first beer."
"French","Nobility imposes obligations."
"French","When the cat's away the mice will play."
"French","What! No star, and you are going out to sea? Marching, and you have no music? Traveling, and you have no book? What! No love, and you are going out to live?"
"French","When in Rome, do as the Romans do."
"French","When one has not what one likes, one must like what one has."
"French","When one is dead, it is for a long while."
"French","When sheep get angry they are worse than wolves."
"French","When he was fifteen the devil was a good looking boy."
"French","When the cage is ready the bird is flown."
"French","When Greek meets Greek, then comes the tug of war."
"French","When the child is christened you will have godfathers enough."
"French","When the daughter dies, the son-in-law is dead as well."
"French","When the devil finds the door shut he goes away."
"French","When the devil grows old he turns himself hermit."
"French","When the devil says his paternosters he means to cheat you."
"French","When the dog is drowning every one brings him water."
"French","When the blind man carries the banner, woe to those who follow."
"French","When all other sins are old, greed still stays young."
"French","Whilst the dogs are growling at each other the wolf devours the sheep."
"French","When a cow is lost it is something to recover its tail, were it only to make a handle for one's door."
"French","When a man begins to reason, he ceases to feel."
"French","When a man finds no peace within himself, it is useless to look for it elsewhere."
"French","When a man stops thinking he stops feeling."
"French","When in doubt, Gallop."
"French","When a thing is done, advice comes too late."
"French","When the friar's beaten, then comes James."
"French","When all sins grow old covetousness is young."
"French","When all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail."
"French","When glory comes, loss of memory follows."
"French","When glory comes, memory departs."
"French","When God sends flour the devil carries off the sack."
"French","When goods increase the body decreases."
"French","When a man's friend marries, all is over between them."
"French","Where the thread is weakest it breaks."
"French","Where misfortune befals injuries follow."
"French","Where power reigns there is no room for reason."
"French","Where rosemary grows the wife wears the trousers."
"French","Where the goat is tied she must browse."
"French","Where the hedge is lowest men jump over."
"French","When the door is low one must stoop."
"French","Where the hostess is handsome the wine is good."
"French","When you have not what you like, you must like what you have."
"French","Where the wasp has passed the fly sticks fast."
"French","Where the woman goes the devil follows."
"French","Where there is no sore there needs no plaister."
"French","Where there is nothing the king loses his rights."
"French","Where there's music there can be love."
"French","Too late to grieve when the chance is past."
"French","Where the hostess is beautiful the wine is tasty."
"French","When thieves fall out the thefts are discovered."
"French","What you love is always beautiful."
"French","When the furze is in bloom, my love's in tune."
"French","When the kitchenmaids are together the roast burns."
"French","When the miller is also the mayor, there are two thieves in one pair of trousers."
"French","When the tree is down everybody runs to the branches."
"French","When the woman wants something God quakes."
"French","Where love sets the table food tastes at its best."
"French","When there is no wind every man is a pilot."
"French","When you rely too much on reason, you end up not relying enough on feeling."
"French","When we cannot get what we love, we must love what is within our reach."
"French","When we don't have what we like, we must like what we have."
"French","When you are rich you suffer in a more comfortable way."
"French","When you are well off keep as you are."
"French","When you can't find peace within yourself, there is no use looking for it somewhere else."
"French","When the Frenchman sleeps the devil rocks him."
"French","When the words are said, the holy water is made."
"French","Weather, wind, women, and fortune change like the moon."
"French","When a blind man bears the standard, pity those who follow."
"French","We make big promises to avoid little presents."
"French","We must have reasons for speech but we need none for silence."
"French","We must learn from life how to suffer it."
"French","We must learn to walk before we can run."
"French","We know the true worth of a thing when we have lost it."
"French","We shall see, as the blind man said."
"French","We are all a long time dead."
"French","Wedlock rides in the saddle and repentance on the crupper."
"French","Well begun is half done."
"French","Well fed but ill taught."
"French","Well knows the cats whose ear she licks."
"French","Well-regulated charity begins with one's self."
"French","Went in one ear and out the other."
"French","We never know the worth of water till the well is dry."
"French","Vice hides under a cloak of virtue."
"French","Upon a slight pretext the wolf takes the sheep."
"French","Upon an egg the hen lays an egg."
"French","Vainglory bears no grain."
"French","Vanity has no greater foe than vanity."
"French","Very good corn grows in little fields."
"French","We know the worth of a thing when we have lost it."
"French","Vessels large may venture more, But little boats must keep near shore."
"French","Were the devil to come from hell to fight, there would forthwith be a Frenchman to accept the challenge."
"French","Wait until it is night before saying that it has been a fine day."
"French","Wake not a sleeping cat."
"French","Walls have ears."
"French","War is much too serious a matter to be entrusted to the military."
"French","War makes robbers, and peace hangs them."
"French","Wash a dog, comb a dog, still a dog remains a dog."
"French","Very hard times in the wood when the wolves eat each other."
"French","What the sober man thinks the drunkard tells."
"French","What the child hears at the fireside is soon known at the parish church."
"French","What the colt learns in youth his continues in old age."
"French","What the eye doesn't see, the heart doesn't grieve over."
"French","What the eye sees not the heart rues not."
"French","What the gauntlet wins the gorget consumes."
"French","Were if not for ""if"" and ""but,"" we should all be rich for ever."
"French","What the sober man keeps in his heart, is on the tongue of the drunkard."
"French","What is worth receiving is worth returning."
"French","What the soldier said isn't evidence."
"French","What was hard to endure is sweet to recall."
"French","What you are doing do thoroughly."
"French","What you can't get is just what suits you."
"French","What you keep rots; what you give flourishes."
"French","What you lose in the fire, you will find amongst the ashes."
"French","What the she-wolf does pleases the he-wolf."
"French","What is learned in the cradle lasts till the grave."
"French","White meal is not got out of a coal-sack."
"French","What a monk thinks he dares to do."
"French","What a neighbor gets is not lost."
"French","What a woman wills God wills."
"French","What comes from the fife goes back to the drum."
"French","What is bad for one is good for another."
"French","What orators lack in depth, they make up for in length."
"French","What is learned in the cradle is carried to the grave."
"French","What makes us discontented with our condition is the absurdly exaggerated idea we have of the happiness of others."
"French","What is new is always fine."
"French","What is not good for the swarm is not good for the bees."
"French","What is true by firelight is not always true by daylight."
"French","What is true by lamplight is not always true by sunlight."
"French","What is true is not always probable."
"French","Were it a wolf it would spring at your throat."
"French","What is enough was never little."
"French","You can cage a bird but you can't make it sing."
"French","With enough 'ifs' we could put Paris in a bottle."
"French","Write injuries in dust, But kindnesses in marble."
"French","Write injuries in the sand, kindnesses in marble."
"French","You always fall down in the direction of where you bend over."
"French","You always knock yourself on the tenderest places."
"French","Words are the leaves of the tree of language, of which, if some fall away, a new succession takes their place."
"French","You are never better served than by yourself."
"French","Words are feminine, deeds masculine."
"French","You can sell the devil if he is well cooked."
"French","You cannot be very smart if you have never done anything foolish."
"French","You cannot clear fog with a fan."
"French","You cannot get oil out of a wall."
"French","You cannot have the bacon and the pig at the same time."
"French","You cannot make a beautiful plumage out of a pig's tail."
"French","You are either hammer or anvil."
"French","Witticisms spare no one."
"French","Where wine appears the doctor disappears."
"French","With the help of an ""if' you might put Paris into a bottle."
"French","With the help of an If you might put Paris into a bottle."
"French","With time and straw medlars ripen."
"French","Without bread and wine even love will pine."
"French","Work relieves us from three great evils, boredom, vice, and want."
"French","Without grace, beauty is an unbaited hook."
"French","You cannot make an omelet without breaking eggs."
"French","Wolves do not eat each other."
"French","Women believe the strangest of lies as long as they are wrapped up in praise."
"French","Women will believe any lie that is wrapped in praise."
"French","Women, money, and wine have their balm and their harm."
"French","Word by word the big books are made."
"French","Words are but sands; 'tis money buys lands."
"French","Without business, debauchery."
"French","Young men forgive, old men never."
"French","You often meet your destiny on the road you take to avoid it."
"French","You often meet your fate on the road you take to avoid it."
"French","You pays your money and you takes your choice."
"French","You play with edged tools."
"French","You pull chestnuts from the fire with a cat's paws."
"French","You cannot make a hawk of a buzzard."
"French","You sell more herrings on the market than sole."
"French","You must not throw stones into your neighbor's garden."
"French","Young people tell what they are doing, old people what they have done, and fools what they wish to do."
"French","Young saints, old devils."
"French","Youth lives on hope, old age on remembrance."
"French","Youth may stray afar yet return at last."
"French","If you cannot say it, point to it with your finger."
"French","Lightning never strikes the same place twice."
"French","You recognize the saint by his miracle."
"French","You have to be rich to be able to live like a poor man."
"French","With enough ""ifs"" we could put Paris into a bottle."
"French","You cannot make bricks without straw."
"French","You cannot satisfy the whole world and your father."
"French","You dance better with a full belly than with a new dress."
"French","You do not always have to believe what you see."
"French","You do not fatten pigs with pure water."
"French","You never get clean flour from a coal sack."
"French","You easily lend bread to the one who has flour."
"French","You need to break the shell in order to have the almond."
"French","You have to give time some time."
"French","You hear little from the drummer that is paid in advance."
"French","You know a person by his nickname."
"French","You may as well give a good beating as a bad one."
"French","You may know the lion by his claw."
"French","You cannot make an ass drink if he is not thirsty."
"French","You don't have to kill the chicken to get eggs."
"French","Who loves well is slow to forget."
"French","With money you can comfort any woman."
"French","Who knows most says least."
"French","Who knows nothing doubts nothing."
"French","Who knows what women can be when they are finally free to become themselves?"
"French","Who lends to a friend loses doubly."
"French","Who is born of a cat will run after mice."
"French","Who lives will see."
"French","Who is born a chicken loves scratching."
"French","Who loves well, chastises well."
"French","Who often changes, damages."
"French","Who pays soon borrows when he will."
"French","Who proves too much proves nothing."
"French","Who punishes one threatens a hundred."
"French","Who refuses, muses."
"French","Who lives on the score has shame evermore."
"French","Who doubts errs not."
"French","Who answers for another pays."
"French","Who blows his nose too hard makes it bleed."
"French","Who can't pretend cannot govern."
"French","Who cannot work out his salvation by heart will not do it by book."
"French","Who cares well for cats will marry as happily as he or she could ever wish."
"French","Who is known as an early riser may sleep longer."
"French","Who does not venture gets neither horse nor mule, and who ventures too much lose horse and mule."
"French","Who serves well asks enough."
"French","Who draws his sword against his prince must throw away his scabbard."
"French","Who eats capon, capon comes to him."
"French","Who goes and returns makes a journey."
"French","Who has not, cannot."
"French","Who hears but one bell hears but one sound."
"French","Who hears music feels his solitude."
"French","Who could live without hope?"
"French","Will laugh well who will laugh the last."
"French","Why buy a cow when milk is so cheap?"
"French","Why hide from God what the saints already know?"
"French","Why keep a dog and bark yourself?"
"French","Why kill time when one can employ it?."
"French","Why should the devil have all the best tunes?"
"French","Who rises late must trot all day."
"French","Will is power."
"French","Whosoever draws his sword against the prince must throw the scabbard away."
"French","Wine poured out is not wine swallowed."
"French","Wine wears no breeches."
"French","Wine wears no mask."
"French","Wine will not keep in a foul vessel."
"French","Wishes never filled the bag."
"French","With an old husband's hide one buys a young one."
"French","Widows comfort themselves when they remarry, widowers take revenge."
"French","Who wives for a dower, resigns his own power."
"French","Unless Hell is full, no lawyer will ever be saved."
"French","Who sows reaps."
"French","Who sows thorns let him not walk bare-foot."
"French","Who sows thorns should not go barefoot."
"French","Who speaks, sows; who listens, reaps."
"French","Who spits against heaven, it falls on his head."
"French","Why buy a cow if you can get the milk for free."
"French","Who wishes to travel far spares his steed."
"French","Why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?"
"French","Who won't be ruled by the rudder must be ruled by the rock."
"French","Whoever rubs himself with garlic will not smell of cloves."
"French","Whores and thieves are always very pious."
"French","Whoso hath land hath war."
"French","Whoso is well let him keep so."
"French","Who serves the mass is thanked by none, but cursed if aught left undone."
"French","Who spits against the wind spits in his own face."
"French","The tongue goes to where the tooth aches."
"French","The saint's-day over, farewell the saint."
"French","The sun shines for all the world."
"French","The surest way to remain poor is to be an honest man."
"French","The sweetest grapes are picked from the vineyard of friendship."
"French","The tail is the hardest to scourge."
"French","The stable wears out a horse more than the road."
"French","The tiredness of the body is the health of the soul."
"French","The soup makes the soldier."
"French","The tongue wounds more than a lance."
"French","The town that parleys is half surrendered."
"French","The tree does not fall at the first stroke."
"French","The tree is known by its fruit."
"French","The tulip is, among flowers, what the peacock is among birds. A tulip lacks scent, a peacock has an unpleasant voice. The one takes pride in its garb, the other in its tail."
"French","The two make a pair."
"French","The threatener sometimes gets a beating."
"French","The sheep on the mountain is higher than the bull on the plain."
"French","Upbraiding makes a benefit an injury."
"French","The sea has an enormous thirst and an insatiable appetite."
"French","The sea refuses no river."
"French","The seagull sees farthest who flies highest."
"French","The second blow makes the fray."
"French","The stronger the seam the worse the rent."
"French","The servant of the devil does more than is asked for."
"French","The villain that becomes rich knows neither friends nor family."
"French","The sheep that bleats loses a mouthful."
"French","The sheep that is too tame is sucked by too many lambs."
"French","The shortest follies are the best."
"French","The shovel scouts the poker."
"French","The silence of the people is a warning for the king."
"French","The skin is nearer than the shirt."
"French","The secret of two is God's secret, the secret of three is everybody's secret."
"French","There are more buyers than connoisseurs."
"French","The worst is not always certain but it's very likely."
"French","The worst jests are those which are true."
"French","The worst wheel always creaks most."
"French","Their dogs don't hunt in couples."
"French","Their harms, our arms."
"French","The ugliest tomcat always has the most beautiful mate."
"French","There are good dogs of all sizes."
"French","The workman is known by his work."
"French","There are more foolish buyers than foolish sellers."
"French","There are more fools among buyers than among sellers."
"French","There are more old drunkards than old doctors."
"French","There are more thieves than gallows."
"French","There are no beautiful prisons or ugly loved ones."
"French","There are no children now-a-days."
"French","There are fagots and fagots."
"French","The wit one wants spoils what one has."
"French","The saint who works no cures has few pilgrims to his shrine."
"French","The weakest must hold the candle."
"French","The weather, fleecy clouds, and a made up woman don't last long."
"French","The while we keep a man waiting, he reflects on our shortcomings."
"French","The will is taken for the deed."
"French","The wine given to your workmen is that for which you get the best paid."
"French","The worst clothed go to windward."
"French","The wise do as much as they should, not as much as they can."
"French","The world is a barrel, for all to draw from."
"French","The wolf is not as big as people make him."
"French","The wolf knows what the ill beats thinks."
"French","The wolf will die in his skin."
"French","The word of a woman is as a little feather on the water."
"French","The word of honour of a gentleman--another pledge would be better."
"French","The urine of one dog will not pollute the ocean."
"French","The wine is not known by the hoops."
"French","The monk responds as the abbot chants."
"French","The same heat that melts wax, bakes clay."
"French","The meaning is best known to the speaker."
"French","The merchant that loses cannot laugh."
"French","The merchant who gains not, loseth."
"French","The mill does not grind with water that is past."
"French","The man who has nothing to do is always the busiest."
"French","The money paid, the workman's arm is broken."
"French","The man has neither sense nor reason who leaves a young wife at home."
"French","The monk responds to the abbot's chants."
"French","The monk that begs for God's sake begs for two."
"French","The more a man exposes his nakedness the colder he is."
"French","The more fools, the more laughter."
"French","The more haste the worse speed."
"French","The more you stir it the more it stinks."
"French","The miser and the pig are of no use till dead."
"French","The less one thinks, the more one speaks."
"French","The last come is the best liked."
"French","The last comers are often the masters."
"French","The last drop makes the cup run over."
"French","The last drop maketh the cup run over."
"French","The law says what the king pleases."
"French","The maxims of men disclose their hearts."
"French","The leaves fall before the tree dies."
"French","The most covered fire is always the most glowing."
"French","The list is worse than the cloth."
"French","The listener makes the backbiter."
"French","The little alms are the good alms."
"French","The long awaited Easter feast is over in one day."
"French","The longer the way, the more tired the man."
"French","The love that you die from is too big."
"French","The lawyer's pouch is a mouth of hell."
"French","The pitcher goes often to the well and gets broken at last."
"French","The only real way someone can stop criticism is to die."
"French","The only victory over love is flight."
"French","The only way to keep a secret is to say nothing."
"French","The patient one always wins."
"French","The people's voice, God's voice."
"French","The more you stir it the worse it stinks."
"French","The person who has no opinion will seldom be wrong."
"French","The old monkey gets the apple."
"French","The pleasure of love lasts but a moment, The pain of love lasts a lifetime."
"French","The poor man commands respect; the beggar must always excite anger."
"French","The problem that has no name--which is simply the fact that American women are kept from growing to their full human capacities--is taking a far greater toll on the physical and mental health of our"
"French","The reputation of a man is like his shadow; it sometimes follows and sometimes precedes him, it is sometimes longer and sometimes shorter than his natural size."
"French","The rich man has more relations than he knows about."
"French","The richest man carries nothing away with him but a shroud."
"French","The person who does not ask will never get a bargain."
"French","The nearer the minster the later to mass."
"French","There are no women or horses without shortcomings."
"French","The most cunning are the first caught."
"French","The most friendly fortune trips up your heels."
"French","The most lasting monuments are doubtless paper-monuments."
"French","The mountaineer's ass carries wine and drinks water."
"French","The mouse has but one hole is soon caught."
"French","The one-eyed are kings in the land of the blind."
"French","The nearer the church the farther from God."
"French","The one with a running nose always wants to blow someone else's."
"French","The niggard spends as much as he who is liberal, and in the end more."
"French","The night brings counsel."
"French","The nimblest footman is a false tale."
"French","The noise is so great one cannot hear God thunder."
"French","The old dog barks not in vain."
"French","The mortar always smells of garlic."
"French","The mule long keeps a kick in reserve for its master."
"French","To rob a robber is not robbing."
"French","There are no foolish trades, there are only foolish people."
"French","To love and to be wise are two different things."
"French","To love is to choose."
"French","To make a happy couple, the husband must be deaf and the wife blind."
"French","To one who has a pie in the oven you may give a bit of your cake."
"French","To leave a place is to die a little."
"French","To rise at six, eat at ten, sup at six, go to bed at ten, makes a man live years ten times ten."
"French","To know all is to forgive all."
"French","To rude words deaf ears."
"French","To rule the mountains is to rule the river."
"French","To scare a bird is not the way to catch it."
"French","To see it rain is better than to be in it."
"French","To squeeze an eel too hard is the way to lose it."
"French","To take the rat by the tail."
"French","To rise at five, dine at nine, sup at five, go to bed at nine, makes a man live to ninety-nine."
"French","To every saint his candle."
"French","To contradict means sometimes to knock at the door to see if anyone is at home."
"French","To do like the monkey, get the chesnuts out of the fire with the cat's paw."
"French","To do, one must be doing."
"French","To eat and drink, and sleep together, is marriage, methinks."
"French","To enjoy life is worth so much more than it costs."
"French","To leave is to die a little."
"French","To every lord every honour."
"French","To turn an obstacle to one's advantage is a great step towards victory."
"French","To get the chicks one must coax the hen."
"French","To give tardily is to refuse."
"French","To go as fast as a friar that is invited to dinner."
"French","To grow rich one has only to turn his back on God."
"French","To heaven for the music but to hell for a good conversation."
"French","To know a man well one must have eaten a bushel of salt with him."
"French","To every bird its nest seems fair."
"French","Try to reason about love, and you will lose your reason."
"French","Trickery comes back to its master."
"French","Trim my beard, and I will trim your top-knot."
"French","True jokes never please."
"French","True nobility is invulnerable."
"French","Trust is the mother of exasperation."
"French","To the devil with so many masters, said the toad to the harrow."
"French","Truth is the club that knocks down and kills everybody."
"French","Travelers from afar can lie with impunity."
"French","Turn your tongue seven times before speaking."
"French","Two men may meet, but never two mountains."
"French","Two of a kind, whate'er they be."
"French","Two sparrows on the same ear of corn are not long friends."
"French","Two sparrows upon one ear of corn make ill agreement."
"French","The kettle smuts the frying-pan."
"French","Trust not to God but upon good security."
"French","Too much zeal spoils all."
"French","To believe a thing impossible is to make it so."
"French","To want to forget something is to remember it."
"French","To wash an ass's head is but loss of time and soap."
"French","To whom do you offer your shells for sale? To people who come from Saint Michel."
"French","Too keen an edge does not cut, too fine a point does not pierce."
"French","Too late the bird cries out when it is caught."
"French","Tread on a worm and it will turn."
"French","Too much water drowned the miller."
"French","Travellers from afar can lie with impunity."
"French","Too to will in two."
"French","Touch not another man's money, for the most honest never added to it."
"French","Tough times don't last but tough people do."
"French","Trade follows the flag."
"French","Trade knows neither friends or kindred."
"French","To the jaundiced all things seem yellow."
"French","Too many doctors too few medicines."
"French","There is nothing new, but what has become antiquated."
"French","There is no pot so bad but finds it cover."
"French","There is no pride like that of a beggar grown rich."
"French","There is no science without patience."
"French","There is no spite like that of a proud beggar."
"French","There is no such thing as a pretty good omelette."
"French","There's a pinch of the madman in every great man."
"French","There is no worse water than that which sleeps."
"French","There is no perfect marriage, for there are no perfect men."
"French","There is nothing so well done but may be mended."
"French","There is one who kisses, and the other who offers the cheek."
"French","There is something in the misfortune of our best friends which does not displease us."
"French","There never was a banquet so sumptuous but some one dined ill at it."
"French","There never was a looking-glass that told a woman she was ugly."
"French","To compare is not to prove."
"French","There is no such thing as an insignificant enemy."
"French","There is no flavour in a swallowed morsel."
"French","Unstringing the bow does not cure the wound."
"French","There are toys for all ages."
"French","There are two great pleasures in gambling: that of winning and that of losing."
"French","There is a pinch of the madman in every great man."
"French","There is a remedy for everything except death."
"French","There is many a slip twixt cup and lip."
"French","There is no place like home."
"French","There is no chapel so small but has its saint."
"French","There is no pillow so soft as a clear conscience."
"French","There is no flying without wings."
"French","There is no hunting but with old hounds."
"French","There is no lock on the purse of a gambler."
"French","There is no love without jealousy."
"French","There is no old bread that cannot find its cheese."
"French","There's neither rhyme nor reason."
"French","There is no bush so small but casts its shadow."
"French","To a bold man fortune holds out her hand."
"French","Though the fool waits, the day does not."
"French","Three brothers, three castles."
"French","Three removals are as bad as a fire."
"French","Thrift is better than an annuity."
"French","Thrive by honesty or remain poor."
"French","There once was a good mother-in-law but the wolf gobbled her up."
"French","Tis better to be a coward than fool-hardie."
"French","Those who do not do politics will be done in by politics."
"French","To a good cat a good rat."
"French","To a rogue a rogue and a half."
"French","To be a fool at the right time is an art."
"French","To be loved is the best way of being useful."
"French","To be willing is to be able."
"French","There are no miracles for those that have no faith in them."
"French","Tired folks are quarrelsome."
"French","They forgive the wine but they hang the bottle."
"French","There's no guarding against the privy thief."
"French","There's no need to grease the fat pig's rump."
"French","There's no showing the wolf to a bad dog."
"French","There's not enough if there's not too much."
"French","There's nothing like being bespattered for making a man defy the gutter."
"French","There's nothing like having the key of the fields."
"French","Those who shine in the second rank, are eclipsed by the first."
"French","They are not free who drag their chains behind them."
"French","Those who envy die, but envy stays alive."
"French","They who come from afar have leave to lie."
"French","They will be hushed by a good deed who laughs at a wise speech."
"French","Think much, say little, write less."
"French","Think much, speak little, write less."
"French","Those who are absent are always wrong."
"French","To believe a thing is impossible is to make it so."
"French","There's virtue in a man's face."
"French","At a bridge, a plank, a river, the servant foremost, the master behind."
"French","Authority has no partner."
"French","As the man is worth his land is worth."
"French","As the wind so the sail."
"French","As you make your bed so you must lie upon it."
"French","Ask my comrade, who is as great a liar as myself."
"French","As changeable is the moon so is the opinion of the woman."
"French","Asses must not be tied up with horses."
"French","Arrange your cloak as the wind blows."
"French","At a little fountain one drinks at one's ease."
"French","At borrowing cousin german, at repaying son of a whore."
"French","At Rome do as Rome does."
"French","At Shrove-tide every one had need of his frying-pan."
"French","At the king's court every one for himself."
"French","A woman like a horse needs spurs."
"French","Ask no questions and hear no lies."
"French","Anger is a bad counselor."
"French","An old poacher makes the best gamekeeper."
"French","An old rat is a brave rat."
"French","An ounce of favour goes further, or is worth more, than a pound of justice."
"French","An ounce of luck is worth a pound of wisdom."
"French","And old rat is a brave rat."
"French","As soon dies the calf as the cow."
"French","Anger is a bad counsellor."
"French","Autumn is the hush before winter."
"French","Anoint a villain and he will prick you, prick a villain and he will anoint you."
"French","Another's misfortune is only a dream."
"French","Any water puts out fire."
"French","Appetite comes with eating; the more one has, the more one would have."
"French","April showers bring forth May flowers."
"French","Are there not spots on the sun?"
"French","Anger is a bad adviser."
"French","Bees touch no fading flowers."
"French","At the wars as they do at the wars."
"French","Beauty and folly are often companions."
"French","Beauty is silent eloquence."
"French","Beauty without virtue is as a flower without perfume."
"French","Beauty, unaccompanied by virtue, is as a flower without perfume."
"French","Bear with evil and expect good."
"French","Bees that have honey in their mouths have stings in their tails."
"French","Bear wealth, poverty will bear itself."
"French","Being loved is the best way of being useful."
"French","Believe that, and drink some water."
"French","Belles are not for the beaux."
"French","Bells call to church but do not enter."
"French","Better a good dinner than a fine coat."
"French","Better a ruined than a lost land."
"French","Bees do not become hornets."
"French","Bad watch often feeds the wolf."
"French","Avarice bursts the bag."
"French","Avarice increases with wealth."
"French","Avarice is never satisfied."
"French","Bad charcoal only makes smoke."
"French","Bad merchandise is never cheap."
"French","Beautiful grapes often make poor wine."
"French","Bad ware is never cheap."
"French","An old dog does not bark for nothing."
"French","Barking dogs don't bite."
"French","Barking dogs seldom bite."
"French","Barnaby bright, Barnaby bright, the longest day and the shortest night."
"French","Barren corn makes bitter bread."
"French","Be a horse ever so well shod, he may slip."
"French","Be truly what thou wouldst be thought to be."
"French","Bad news has wings."
"French","After rain fine weather."
"French","An old ox makes a straight furrow."
"French","Africa is a cold land where the sun is warm."
"French","After a feast a man scratches his head."
"French","After a storm comes a calm."
"French","After me the deluge."
"French","Adversity makes strange bedfellows."
"French","After one loss come many."
"French","Adversity makes a man wise."
"French","After shaving there is nothing to shear."
"French","After the act wishing is in vain."
"French","After the daughter is married, then come sons-in-law in plenty."
"French","After us the deluge."
"French","Against change of fortune set a brave heart."
"French","All are not hunters that blow the horn."
"French","After mischance every one is wise."
"French","A word to the wise."
"French","Even the smallest little bush casts some shadow."
"French","A woman who dances too much gets ill from little work."
"French","A woman who looks much in the glass spins but little."
"French","A woman would rather swallow her teeth than her tongue."
"French","A woman's heart dries quicker than her tears."
"French","Advisers are not the payers."
"French","A word once out flies everywhere."
"French","All cats are bad in May."
"French","A year of snow, a year of plenty."
"French","A young angel, an old devil."
"French","Absent people do not inherit."
"French","Absent, none without blame; present, none without excuse."
"French","According to the arm be the bleeding."
"French","Adversity is the touchstone of friendship."
"French","A woman's tongue is her sword, and she does not let it rust."
"French","An ass does not stumble twice over the same stone."
"French","Always say no, and you will never be married."
"French","Always talk big and you will never be forgotten."
"French","An apothecary ought not to be long a cuckold."
"French","An apple a day keeps the doctor away."
"French","An apple, an egg, and a nut, You may eat after a slut."
"French","All are not hunters who blow the horn."
"French","An art requires a whole man."
"French","All truths are not good to be uttered."
"French","An easy shepherd makes the wolf void wool."
"French","An eel escapes from a good fisherman."
"French","An enemy does not sleep."
"French","An enemy may chance to give good counsel."
"French","An old ape never made a pretty grimace."
"French","Better alone than in bad company."
"French","An army marches on its stomach."
"French","All is well that ends well."
"French","An old oven is easier to heat than a new one."
"French","All cats are not to be set down for witches."
"French","All good women are in the graveyard."
"French","All heads are not sense-boxes."
"French","All his geese are swans."
"French","All is luck or ill luck in this world."
"French","Always in love, never married."
"French","All is not lost that is delayed."
"French","All's well that ends well."
"French","All of the Earth's treasures can't bring back a lost moment."
"French","All state, and nothing on the plate."
"French","All the keys do not hang at one girdle."
"French","All the treasures of earth cannot bring back one lost moment."
"French","All the treasures of the earth can't bring back one lost moment."
"French","All cats are alike grey at night."
"French","All is not gold that glitters."
"French","Dogs that always fight always have bleeding ears."
"French","Comparison is not necessarily proof."
"French","Do not let grass grow on the path of friendship."
"French","Do not make two devils of one."
"French","Do not strip before bedtime."
"French","Do what you ought, come what may."
"French","Do not abstain from sowing for fear of the pigeons."
"French","Do you wish people to think well of you? Don't speak."
"French","Divorce is the sacrament of adultery."
"French","Don't dance on a volcano."
"French","Don't find fault with what you don't understand."
"French","Don't harness the donkey and the horse together."
"French","Don't imitate the fly before you have wings."
"French","Don't make an oven of your cap or a garden of your belly."
"French","Don't rely on the label of the bag."
"French","Do you want better bread than wheaten?"
"French","Dead lions do not roar."
"French","Better a slip of the foot than of the tongue."
"French","Contrivance is better than force."
"French","Could a man foresee events he would never be poor."
"French","Counted sheep are eaten by the wolf."
"French","Courage is often caused by fear."
"French","Do not lend your money to a great man."
"French","Courting and wooing brings dallying and doing."
"French","Don't show your teeth if you can't bite."
"French","Dearness gluts."
"French","Death takes the poor man's cow and the rich man's child."
"French","Deceit always returns to its master."
"French","Desperate ills require desperate remedies."
"French","Desperate maladies require desperate remedies."
"French","Diamond cut diamond."
"French","Courtesy that is all on one side cannot last long."
"French","Elbow-grease is a great preventative of disease."
"French","Drop by drop wears away the stone."
"French","Easy to say is hard to do."
"French","Eat bread at pleasure, drink wine by measure."
"French","Eat with pleasure; drink with measure."
"French","Eavesdroppers never hear any good of themselves."
"French","Don't rock the boat."
"French","Eggs are put to hatch on a chance."
"French","Dressed like a windmill."
"French","Empty casks make the most noise."
"French","Empty rooms make giddy housewives."
"French","Empty sacks will never stand upright."
"French","Enough is better than too much."
"French","Envy goes beyond avarice."
"French","Even the best mule still saves a kick for his master."
"French","Economy is the wealth of the poor and the wisdom of the rich."
"French","Don't try to fly before you have wings."
"French","Company in distress makes trouble less."
"French","Don't shut the barn door after the horse is stolen."
"French","Don't slaughter more pigs than you can salt."
"French","Don't snap your fingers at the dogs before you are out of the village."
"French","Don't speak to the man at the helm."
"French","Don't talk Latin before the Franciscans."
"French","Drop by drop the lake is drained."
"French","Don't teach your grandmother to suck eggs."
"French","Drop by drop fills the tub."
"French","Dread the anger of the dove."
"French","Dreams are lies."
"French","Dreams go by contraries."
"French","Dress makes the man."
"French","Dress slowly when you are in a hurry."
"French","Don't run too far, you will have to return the same distance."
"French","Don't teach fishes to swim."
"French","Between man and woman there is little difference, but vive la difference."
"French","Comparison is not proof."
"French","Better to bend then break."
"French","Better to have a friend on the road than gold and silver in your purse."
"French","Better to prevent than to cure."
"French","Better to stumble once than be always tottering."
"French","Better to be envied than pitied."
"French","Better walk before a hen than behind an ox."
"French","Better the second husband of a widow than the first."
"French","Between promising and giving a man should marry his daughter."
"French","Between saying and doing many a pair of shoes is worn out."
"French","Between the hand and the mouth the soup is often spilt."
"French","Between two stools one sits on the ground."
"French","Between two stools the breech comes to the ground."
"French","Between two stools you come to the ground."
"French","Better to wear out than rust out."
"French","Better beloved than admired."
"French","A woman laughs when she can, and weeps when she pleases."
"French","Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow."
"French","Better be a coward than foolhardy."
"French","Better be an old man's darling than a young man's slave."
"French","Better be envied than pitied."
"French","Better to be seen alone than in bad company."
"French","Better be the head of a dog than the tail of a lion."
"French","Big winds, small showers."
"French","Better bend than break."
"French","Better bread in the basket than a feather in your cap."
"French","Better die a beggar than live as a miser."
"French","Better lose the wool than the sheep."
"French","Better ten people hurt than one dead."
"French","Better the foot slip than the tongue."
"French","Better be mad with all the world than wise alone."
"French","Children are what they are made."
"French","By writing we learn to write."
"French","Cabbage for cabbage."
"French","Caesar's wife must be above suspicion."
"French","Cats like man are flatterers."
"French","Cherries are bitter to the glutted blackbird."
"French","Beware of a reconciled enemy."
"French","Children and fools have merry lives."
"French","By night all cats are grey."
"French","Children have more need of models than critics."
"French","Choose a wife with your ears, not your eyes."
"French","Choosy pigs never get fat."
"French","Christmas has been talked of so long that it has come at last."
"French","Civility costs nothing."
"French","Communities begin by building their kitchen."
"French","Children and fools are prophets."
"French","Buy on the cannons, sell on the trumpets."
"French","Better a small fire that warms you than a big one that burns you."
"French","Borrows must not be choosers."
"French","Bread and wine start a banquet."
"French","Bring up a raven, and he will peck out your eyes."
"French","Build a golden bridge for the fleeing enemy."
"French","Burgundy for kings, champagne for duchesses, claret for gentlemen."
"French","By working in the smithy one becomes a smith."
"French","But may not truth in laughing guise be dressed?"
"French","By telling our woes we often assuage them."
"French","By beating love decays."
"French","By biting and scratching cats and dogs come together."
"French","By candle-light a goat looks like a lady."
"French","By continually scolding someone, they in time become accustomed to it and despise your reproof."
"French","By dint of going wrong all will come right."
"French","Big head, little wit."
"French","But for all that the honest man has not got his purse."
"French","A girl unemployed is thinking of mischief."
"French","A good beast heats with eating."
"French","A galled horse does not care to be curried."
"French","A galled horse will not endure the comb."
"French","A gaunt brute bites sore."
"French","A gentlemen of Beauce who stays in bed till his breeches are mended."
"French","A full belly counsels well."
"French","A gilt bridle for an old mule."
"French","A friend's meat is soon ready."
"French","A girl without a friend is like the spring without roses."
"French","A glaring sunny morning, a woman that talks Latin, and a child reared on wine, never come to a good end."
"French","A glutton is one who digs his grave with his teeth."
"French","A goaded ass must trot."
"French","A good advice is as good as an eye in the hand."
"French","A woman who accepts, sells herself; a woman who gives, surrenders."
"French","A giant among the pigmies."
"French","A fool's speech is a bubble of air."
"French","A fence between makes love more keen."
"French","A fine cage won't feed the bird."
"French","A fine girl and a tattered gown always find something to hook the them."
"French","A fine quotation is a diamond on the finger of a man of wit, and a pebble in the hand of a fool."
"French","A fool is always beginning."
"French","A full belly sets a man jigging."
"French","A fool's heart dances on his lips."
"French","A good bone does not always come to a good dog."
"French","A fool's tongue is long enough to cut his own throat."
"French","A fool's voice is known by a multitude of words."
"French","A foolish judge passes brief sentence."
"French","A foolish woman is known by her finery."
"French","A friend is known in time of need."
"French","A friend to my table and wine, is no good neighbour."
"French","A fool's head never whitens."
"French","A good swordsman is not given to quarrel."
"French","A good armchair makes the backside soft and the heart hard."
"French","A good man is a man of goods."
"French","A good meal ought to begin with hunger."
"French","A good name is better than a girdle of gold."
"French","A good repast ought to begin with hunger."
"French","A good husband should be deaf and a good wife should be blind."
"French","A good swordsman is never quarrelsome."
"French","A good head does not want for hats."
"French","A good tale is none the worse for being twice told."
"French","A good thing can be twice, nay, even thrice spoken."
"French","A great estate is not gotten in a few hours."
"French","A great fortune in the hands of a fool is a great misfortune."
"French","A great talker is a great liar."
"French","A guest and a fish after three days are poison."
"French","A good swimmer is not safe against drowning."
"French","A good dog never gets a good bone."
"French","A good bottle of wine does not need a cork."
"French","A good burgundy does a lot for women, especially when men drink it."
"French","A good cat deserves a good rat."
"French","A good cause needs help."
"French","A good cock is always slim."
"French","A good lawyer is a bad neighbour."
"French","A good dog never barks at fault."
"French","A fault once denied, is twice committed."
"French","A good driver turns in a small space."
"French","A good example is the best sermon."
"French","A good figure is better than a reference letter."
"French","A good fox does not eat his neighbor's chickens."
"French","A good gaper makes two gapers."
"French","A good hater,a good lover."
"French","A good dog hunts by instinct."
"French","A bellyfull of gluttony will never study willingly."
"French","A favour ill placed is great waste."
"French","A bad sheerer never had a good sickle."
"French","A bad workman never finds a good tool."
"French","A beautiful maxim in the memory is like a piece of gold in the purse."
"French","A beggar is never out of his road."
"French","A bad bush is better than an open field."
"French","A bellyful is a bellyful."
"French","A baby is an angel whose wings decrease as his legs increase."
"French","A big nose never spoiled a handsome face."
"French","A black hen lays a white egg."
"French","A blind hen can sometimes find her corn."
"French","A brain is worth little without a tongue."
"French","A cake and a bad custom ought to be broken."
"French","A cake eaten in peace, is worth two in trouble."
"French","A beggar on his feet is worth more than an emperor in his grave."
"French","'Tis a silly sheep that makes the wolf her confessor."
"French","If you don't want to be deceived, then marry on February 30th."
"French","Lightly come, lightly go."
"French","Almost and ""about"" prevent lying."
"French","They say is a fool."
"French","'Tis a good farthing that saves a penny."
"French","A bad compromise is better than a good lawsuit."
"French","'Tis a long day a day without bread."
"French","A churl never liked a gentleman."
"French","'Tis everywhere the same as here."
"French","'Tis possible if true."
"French","'Tis sweet at certain times to drop the sage."
"French","'Tis the last straw that breaks the camel's back."
"French","'Twixt the cup and the lip there's many a slip."
"French","'Twixt the word and the deed there's a long step."
"French","'Tis a good horse that has no fault."
"French","A drowning man will catch at a straw."
"French","A dead mouse feels no cold."
"French","A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple."
"French","A dealer in onions is a good judge of scallions."
"French","A dog may look at a bishop."
"French","A dog with a docked tail is not afraid that its backside can be seen."
"French","A cat in gloves catches no mice."
"French","A drowning man clings to a blade of grass."
"French","A crow is no whiter for being washed."
"French","A drowning man will clutch at a straw."
"French","A fair promise binds a fool."
"French","A fat kitchen makes a lean will."
"French","A father is a banker provided by nature."
"French","A fault denied is twice committed."
"French","A handsome shoe often pinches the feet."
"French","A door must either be open or shut."
"French","A courtier should be without feeling and without honour."
"French","A fault that is denied once is committed twice."
"French","A civil denial is better than a rude grant."
"French","A civil question deserves a civil answer."
"French","A clear conscience is a good pillow."
"French","A closed mouth catches no flies."
"French","A clown enriched knows neither relation nor friend."
"French","A dead man has neither relations nor friends."
"French","A colt you may break, but an old horse you never can."
"French","A day is lost if one has not laughed."
"French","A covetous woman deserves a swindling gallant."
"French","A cow does not know what her tail is worth until she has lost it."
"French","A cow from afar gives plenty of milk."
"French","A coward often deals a mortal blow to the brave."
"French","A crooked log makes a good fire."
"French","A churl knows not the work of spurs."
"French","A colt is good for nothing if it does not break its halter."
"French","A scalded cat dreads cold water."
"French","A mansion pulled down is half built up again."
"French","A rich man has more relatives than he knows about."
"French","A rich man is never ugly in the eyes of a girl."
"French","A Rowland for an Oliver."
"French","A sack is best tied before it is full."
"French","A ragged colt may make a good horse."
"French","A saint that cannot cure anyone has few disciples."
"French","A pleasant companion on a journey is as good as a postchaise."
"French","A scalded cat fears cold water."
"French","A short mass and a long dinner."
"French","A short sword for a brave man."
"French","A silent woman is a gift from God."
"French","A silver hammer breaks an iron door."
"French","A sin concealed is half pardoned."
"French","A sack was never so full but that it would hold another grain."
"French","A noble prince or king never has a coin to bless himself."
"French","A handful of good life is better than seven barrels of learning."
"French","A miserly father makes a prodigal man."
"French","A mistake is no reckoning."
"French","A Montgomery division: all on one side, nothing on the other."
"French","A Montgomery division: all on one side, nothing on the other."
"French","A restive morsel needs a spur of wine."
"French","A muffled cat never caught a mouse."
"French","A small fire that warms you is better than a large one that burns you."
"French","A party of one alone is not a party."
"French","A party of two is that of God; of three of the king; of four is of the devil."
"French","A peg for every hole."
"French","A person is unlucky who falls on his back and breaks his nose."
"French","A person's reputation is like his shadow-sometimes it follows and sometimes it precedes him; and sometimes it is smaller and sometimes it is bigger than him."
"French","A pig's life, short and sweet."
"French","A mother can more easily feed seven children than seven children can feed one mother."
"French","A wicked dog must be tied short."
"French","A tender-hearted mother makes a scabby daughter."
"French","A thing too much seen is little prized."
"French","A thorn comes into the world point foremost."
"French","A throne is only a bench covered with velvet."
"French","A vicious dog must be tied short."
"French","A sin confessed is half forgiven."
"French","A white wall is the fool's paper."
"French","A surgeon should be young, a physician old."
"French","A wicked man's gift hath a touch of his master."
"French","A wise fox will never rob his neighbours hen roost."
"French","A wise man may learn of a fool."
"French","A woman and a melon are hard to choose."
"French","A woman and a ship ever want mending."
"French","A woman conceals only what she does not know."
"French","A white Christmas fills the churchyard."
"French","A sparrow in the hand is better than a pigeon on the wing."
"French","A man's value is that which he sets upon himself."
"French","A smile shortens the distance."
"French","A sow is always dreaming of bran."
"French","A sow prefers bran to roses."
"French","A spaniel, a wife, and a walnut tree, The more you beat 'em the better they be."
"French","A spark may raise An awful blaze."
"French","A teacher stands in fear of teaching."
"French","A sparrow in hand is worth more than a vulture flying."
"French","A table friend is changeable."
"French","A stick is a peacemaker."
"French","A stingy man is always poor."
"French","A stitch in time saves nine."
"French","A summer's sun is worth the having."
"French","A Sunday's child never dies of the plague."
"French","A sin that is hidden is half forgiven."
"French","A sparrow in hand is worth a pheasant that flieth by."
"French","A lawyer needs three bags: one full of papers, one full of money, and one full of patience."
"French","A merry life forgets father and mother."
"French","A hungry horse maketh a clean manger."
"French","A jackfish does more than a letter of recommendation."
"French","A kick from a mare never hurt a horse."
"French","A lame man won't walk with one who is lamer."
"French","A hungry dog is not afraid of a cudgelling."
"French","A late Easter, a long cold spring."
"French","A hungry clown is half mad."
"French","A lie travels round the world while truth is putting her boots on."
"French","A litigious man, a liar."
"French","A little absence does a lot of good."
"French","A little absence does much good."
"French","A little dinner, long expected and cold, is by no means given, but dearly sold."
"French","A little gall spoils a great deal of honey."
"French","A landmark is very well placed between the fields of two brothers."
"French","A honeyed tongue with a heart of gall."
"French","A crooked stick will have a crooked shadow."
"French","A hawk's marriage: the hen is the better bird."
"French","A hawk's marriage: the hen is the better bird."
"French","A healthy man is a successful man."
"French","A healthy soul cannot live in a dry body."
"French","A hungry dog will eat dirty pudding."
"French","A hedge between keeps friendship green."
"French","A little man fells a great oak."
"French","A hook's well lost to catch a salmon."
"French","A house ready made and a wife to make."
"French","A hundred years a banner, a hundred years a barrow."
"French","A hundred years is not much, but never is a long while."
"French","A hundred years of fretting will not pay a halfpenny of debt."
"French","A hungry belly has no ears."
"French","A healthy woman is a successful woman."
"French","A man who has but one eye must take good care of it."
"French","A man may cause his own dog to bite him."
"French","A man may threaten yet be afraid."
"French","A man of straw is worth a woman of gold."
"French","A man takes his own wherever he finds it."
"French","A man travels as far in a day as a snail in a hundred years."
"French","A little help does a great deal."
"French","A man well mounted is always proud."
"French","A man is valued according to his own estimate of himself."
"French","A man who is afraid of suffering suffers from fear itself."
"French","A man who is his own lawyer has a fool for a client."
"French","A man who wants bread is ready for anything."
"French","A man who wants to drown his dog says he is mad."
"French","A man with a watch knows what time it is. A man with two watches is never sure."
"French","A man without money is like a wolf without teeth."
"French","A man warned is as good as two."
"French","A lord of straw devours a vassal of steel."
"French","A handsome hostess is bad for the purse."
"French","A little man sometimes casts a long shadow."
"French","A little pack serves a little pedlar."
"French","A little rain stills a great wind."
"French","A little sheep always seems young."
"French","A little spark shines in the dark."
"French","A man may bear till his back breaks."
"French","A living dog is better than a dead lion."
"French","A man know's no more to any purpose than he practises."
"French","A mad dog cannot live long."
"French","A man assailed is half overcome."
"French","A man at five may be a fool at fifteen."
"French","A man at sixteen will prove a child at sixty."
"French","A man is no happier than he thinks himself."
"French","A little leaven leavens a great mass."
"French","A little thing often helps."
"French","I know by my own pot how the others boil."
"French","If it can lick, it can bite."
"French","Hunger drives the wolf out of the wood."
"French","Hunger is the best sauce."
"French","Hunger looks in at the industrious man's door but dares not enter."
"French","I cried when I was born and each day now I realize why."
"French","Hot sup, hot swallow."
"French","I know by mine own pot how others boil."
"French","Horses run after benefices and asses get them."
"French","I know on which side my bread is buttered."
"French","I love my friends -- but I love myself more."
"French","I never saw a silent rich man."
"French","I never saw an oft-removed tree, Nor yet an oft-removed family, That throve so well as one that settled be."
"French","I sing the song of the person whose bread I eat."
"French","He who has no health has nothing."
"French","I have so much to do...that I am going to bed."
"French","Honey is sweet but bees sting."
"French","Help thyself and heaven will help thee."
"French","Help you to salt, help you to sorrow."
"French","His horse's head is too big, it cannot get out of the stable."
"French","His like Jean de Nivelle's dog, that runs away when he is called."
"French","Honest poverty is thinly sown."
"French","However treacherous the sea may be, women are still more so."
"French","Honey is not for asses."
"French","If it only depends on swearing, the cow is ours."
"French","Honey is sweet, but the bee stings."
"French","Honour blossoms on the grave."
"French","Honours change manners."
"French","Hope is the dream of a soul awake."
"French","Horse, don't die yet, grass is coming."
"French","Horses for courses."
"French","Honey in the mouth, bile in the heart."
"French","If you would understand men, study women."
"French","If a man would learn to pray let him go often to sea."
"French","If you lose your wife and fifteen pennies -- oh ! what a pity about the money."
"French","If you want the truth, ask a child."
"French","If you want to keep your credit you must use it as little as possible."
"French","If you want to love your household as much as your bread then you will have to knead your wife like dough."
"French","If you lend something you may lose it, but not if you give it."
"French","If you want to understand men, study women."
"French","If you have a sore eye wipe it with your elbow."
"French","If you wrestle with a collier you will get a blotch."
"French","If you're born to be hanged then you'll never be drowned."
"French","If your head is made of butter, don't be a baker."
"French","If youth but had the knowledge and old age the strength."
"French","If youth knew. if age could."
"French","Ignorance and incuriosity are two very soft pillows."
"French","If you want to totally avoid being deceived, get married on February 30th."
"French","If we pay for the music we will join in the dance."
"French","If it rains on the pastor it drops on the vicar."
"French","If the doctor cures the sun sees it, but if he kills the earth hides it."
"French","If the fire does not burn you the smoke will blacken you."
"French","If the seawater were hotter we could catch boiled fish."
"French","If the sky were to fall we should catch plenty of larks."
"French","If you live in Rome, don't quarrel with the Pope."
"French","If the young only knew; if the old only could."
"French","He, who kennels with wolves, must howl."
"French","If wishes were horses, beggars would ride."
"French","If wishes were true, shepherds would be kings."
"French","If wishes would bide, beggars would ride."
"French","If you do not have a head, you must have legs."
"French","If you give a gift to a rich man, the devil sniggers."
"French","If you have a good case, try to compromise; if you have a bad one, take it to court."
"French","If the weather is fine, put on you cloak; if it rains, do as you please."
"French","He who marries on a rainy day will be happy for the rest of his life."
"French","Hear, see, and say nothing if you would live in peace."
"French","He who lives long knows what pain is."
"French","He who looks not before finds himself behind."
"French","He who loses his temper is in the wrong."
"French","He who loses sins."
"French","He who lends to a friend loses twice."
"French","He who marries for love has good nights and bad days."
"French","He who judges between two friends loses one of them."
"French","He who never budges from Paris will never be pope."
"French","He who passes a winter's day passes one of his mortal enemies."
"French","He who pays is fairly entitled to speak his mind."
"French","He who pays the piper calls the tune."
"French","He who pays well is well served."
"French","He who quits his place loses it."
"French","He who marries a widow also marries her debts."
"French","He who is at sea does not direct the winds."
"French","He who has not health has nothing."
"French","He who has nothing fears nothing."
"French","He who has two women loses his soul; he who has two houses loses his mind."
"French","He who hold the thread holds the ball."
"French","He who holds his tongue does not commit himself."
"French","He who listens at doors hears more than he desires."
"French","He who is anxious for the death of another has a long rope to pull."
"French","He who rides the mule shoes her."
"French","He who is born to be hanged shall never be drowned."
"French","He who is hopeless is capable of everything."
"French","He who is master of his thirst is master of his health."
"French","He who is near the church is often far from God."
"French","He who is too proud to ask is too good to receive."
"French","He who is waiting for someone else's bowl often dines late."
"French","He who holds the handle of the frying-pan turns it as he pleases."
"French","He will not lose his oats for want of braying."
"French","He who waits for a dead man's shoes is in danger of going barefoot."
"French","He who waits for another man's trencher often dines in imagination."
"French","He who wants to be rich in a year is hanged at six months' end."
"French","He who wants to conquer lechery must flee from it."
"French","He who wants to travel far takes care of his beast."
"French","He who recovers but the tail of his cow does not lose all."
"French","He who wishes to make a golden door drives a nail into it every day."
"French","He who torments others does not sleep well."
"French","He will not lost the parings of his nails."
"French","He would sink a ship freighted with crucifixes."
"French","He'll laugh well that laughs longest."
"French","He'll swear through an inch board."
"French","He's a fool that's fond."
"French","In a conclave many go in as a pope but come back out as the cardinal they were when they went in."
"French","He who wishes to live at Rome must not quarrel with the pope."
"French","He who stops at every stone never gets to his journey's end."
"French","He, who more than he is worth doth spend, E'en makes a rope, his life to end."
"French","He who sees leather cut asks for a thong."
"French","He who sows everywhere harvests nowhere."
"French","He who sows the seed of discord works in the devil's barn."
"French","He who sows thistles reaps thorns."
"French","He who sows virtue reaps fame."
"French","He who turns aside avoids danger."
"French","He who spits in the air pollutes himself."
"French","He who trusts a woman and leads an ass will never be free from plague."
"French","He who survives will see the outcome."
"French","He who takes a partner takes a master."
"French","He who takes a wife takes a master."
"French","He who teaches, learns."
"French","He who threatens is afraid."
"French","He who rides on the giant's shoulders sees further than he who carries him."
"French","He who spares vice wrongs virtue."
"French","It will not out of the flesh that is bred in the bone."
"French","It is not the burden but the over-burden that kills the beast."
"French","Light burdens borne far become heavy."
"French","It is too late for the bird to scream when it is caught."
"French","It is too late to lock the stable door when the steed is stolen."
"French","It is well to fly low on account of the branches."
"French","Light is bad for sore eyes."
"French","It will not do to keep holidays before they come."
"French","It is the sauce that makes the fish edible."
"French","It won't do to trifle with fire."
"French","It would be a huge book that contained all the may be said in a day."
"French","It would be a very big book that contained all the maybes uttered in a day."
"French","It's a big wind that blows on small doors."
"French","It's better to be a hammer than a nail."
"French","It's difficult to chain up an old dog."
"French","It is well to leave off playing when the game is at its best."
"French","It is only the tree loaded with fruit that the people throw stones."
"French","Ill weeds grow apace."
"French","It is nothing at all, only a woman drowning."
"French","It is only at the tree loaded with fruit that the people throw stones."
"French","It is only good bargains that ruin."
"French","It is only idle people who can find time for everything."
"French","It is the tone that makes the music."
"French","It is only the first bottle that is expensive."
"French","Jest not with the eye, or religion."
"French","It is overdoing the thing to die of love."
"French","It is pleasant enough going afoot when you lead your horse by the bridle."
"French","It is the belief in roses that makes them flourish."
"French","It is the master-wheel that makes the mill go round."
"French","It is the old cow's notion that she never was a calf."
"French","It is the pace that kills."
"French","It is only the bashful that lose."
"French","Life is an onion that you peel crying."
"French","Let him who feels he has a dirty nose wipe it."
"French","Let him who is cold blow the fire."
"French","Let not your shirt know your way of thinking."
"French","Liars need good memories."
"French","Liberty has no crueler enemy than license."
"French","It's good to be clever, but not to show it."
"French","Life is an onion and one cries while peeling it."
"French","Leave well alone."
"French","Life is an onion which one peels crying."
"French","Life is half spent before one knows what life is."
"French","Life is like an onion, which one peels crying."
"French","Life is made up of tomorrows."
"French","A coward's fear may make a coward valiant."
"French","Even the strongest person will find his master."
"French","Life is a dung pie from which you take a bite every day."
"French","Laws have wax noses."
"French","It is not the big oxen that do the best day's work."
"French","John has been to school to learn to be a fool."
"French","Justifying a fault doubles it."
"French","Keep a stiff upper lip."
"French","Kindred without friends, friends without power, power without will, will without effect, effect without profit, profit without virtue, is not worth a rush."
"French","Kings have long hands."
"French","Let him that itches scratch himself."
"French","Laughing is not always the proof of a mind at ease."
"French","Let every one mind his own business, and the cows will be well tended."
"French","Lawyers' houses are built on the heads of fools."
"French","Laziness is often mistaken for patience."
"French","Lazy people are always eager to be doing something."
"French","Learning is there for every man."
"French","Leave the minster where it is."
"French","Jealousy is nourished by doubt."
"French","Late is worth more than never."
"French","Iron may be rubbed so long that it gets heated."
"French","It is not the greatest beauties that inspire the most profound passion."
"French","In youth, one has tears without grief; in age, grief without tears."
"French","Incense intoxicates and every one wishes for it."
"French","Indecision is the key to flexibility."
"French","Ingratitude is a kind of weakness; the clever are never ungrateful."
"French","In too much disputing truth is lost."
"French","Io get what we want, we must accept some things we don't want. No rose without a thorn."
"French","In the tail lies the venom."
"French","It is a double pleasure to deceive the deceiver."
"French","It is a good horse that never stumbles."
"French","It is a hard winter when one wolf eats another."
"French","It is a long day, a day without bread."
"French","It is a sorry house in which the cock is silent and the hen crows."
"French","It is a stupid goose that listens to the fox preach."
"French","Ingratitude is the mother of every vice."
"French","In marriage cheat who can."
"French","He who leaves the game, loses."
"French","In a good family the husband is deaf and the wife blind."
"French","In borrowing an angel, in repaying a devil."
"French","In calm water every ship has a good captain."
"French","In hawks, hounds, arms, and love, for one pleasure a thousand pains."
"French","In your own company no one is boss."
"French","In love, there is always one who kisses and one who offers the cheek."
"French","It is always the impossible that happens."
"French","In the councils of a state, the question is not so much, what ought to be done? As, what can be done?"
"French","In the end it will be known who ate the bacon."
"French","In the end things will mend."
"French","In the fiddler's house every one is a dancer."
"French","In the forehead and the eye The lecture of the mind doth lie."
"French","In the kingdom of the blind men, those who are blessed with one eye are kings."
"French","In love and war don't seek counsel."
"French","It is merry in hall when beards wag all."
"French","It is good to dance on another man's floor."
"French","It is good to have friends in all parts."
"French","It is in vain for a man to rise early who has the repute of lying in bed all the morning."
"French","It is in vain to lean the ox to the water if he is not thirsty."
"French","It is just that the priest should live by the altar."
"French","It is a wise man who lives with money in the bank, it is a fool who dies that way."
"French","It is madness for a sheep to talk of peace with a wolf."
"French","It is folly to gape against an oven."
"French","It is more difficult for beautiful women to stay chaste."
"French","It is more disgraceful to suspect our friends than to be deceived by them."
"French","It is not enough to have cabbage, one must have something to grease it."
"French","It is not enough to run, one must start in time."
"French","It is not enough to run; one must start in time."
"French","It is not enough to run; you must start on time."
"French","It is loving too much to die of love."
"French","It is by believing in roses that one brings them to bloom."
"French","Ill-luck is good for something."
"French","It is always well to keep hold of your horse's bridle."
"French","It is at home, not in public, that one washes his dirty linen."
"French","It is better to be the first on one's race than the last."
"French","It is better to be the hammer than the anvil."
"French","It is better to bend than break."
"French","It is good to beat a proud man when he is alone."
"French","It is better to leave the child's nose dirty than wring it off."
"French","It is good fishing in troubled waters."
"French","It is by forging that one becomes a blacksmith."
"French","It is easier to abstain than to restrain."
"French","It is easier to climb down than up."
"French","It is easier to get away from the back than the bottom."
"French","It is easy to go on foot if you are holding your horse by the rein."
"French","It is all one whether you are bit a dog or a bitch."
"French","It is better to have to do with God than with his saints."
"French","For sake of the knight the lady kisses the squire."
"French","He goes safely who has nothing."
"French","For a stubborn ass a stubborn driver."
"French","For a web begun God sends thread."
"French","For a wise man a fool is a good advisor."
"French","For most people love of justice is no more than the fear to suffer injustice."
"French","Fools never get grey hair."
"French","For overbuying there's no help but selling again."
"French","Fools go in throngs."
"French","For some of us happiness comes while we sleep."
"French","For the last-comer the bones."
"French","For wolf's flesh dog sauce."
"French","Forewarned is forearmed."
"French","Fortune can take from us only what she has given us."
"French","Fortune is a woman; if you neglect her to-day, expect not to regain her to-morrow."
"French","For one pleasure a thousand pains."
"French","Fine feathers make fine birds."
"French","Few people rise to our esteem upon closer scrutiny."
"French","Fie upon a cloak in fair weather."
"French","Fields have eyes and woods have ears."
"French","Fine and fine make but a slender doublet."
"French","Fine birds are commonly plucked."
"French","For a stubborn ass a hard goad."
"French","Fine feathers make find birds."
"French","Fouls invent fashions and wise men follow them."
"French","Fish must swim three times: once in the water, a second time in the sauce, and a third time in wine in the stomach."
"French","Flies are easier caught with honey than with vinegar."
"French","Flies will not light on a boiling pot."
"French","Flying birds have no master."
"French","Follow the river and you will reach the sea."
"French","Fools are more useful to the wise than wise are to fools."
"French","Fine dressing is a foul house, swept before the windows."
"French","He falls on his back and breaks his nose."
"French","He beat the bushes and another caught the birds."
"French","He cannot be a friend to any one who is his own enemy."
"French","He carries fire and water."
"French","He carries fire in one hand, water in the other."
"French","He does a good day's work who rids himself of a fool."
"French","Fortune is blind, but not invisible."
"French","He expects that larks will fall ready roasted into his mouth."
"French","He who lies down with dogs gets up with fleas."
"French","He fishes on who catches one."
"French","He flays enough who holds the foot."
"French","He forgot nothing except to say farewell."
"French","He gains enough who loses sorrow."
"French","He gives nothing who does not give himself."
"French","He gives twice who gives in a trice."
"French","He does not guard himself well who is not always on his guard."
"French","Handsomely asked, handsomely refused."
"French","Fear and restlessness kill more than do illnesses."
"French","Foxes come at last to the furrier's."
"French","Frae saving comes having."
"French","Friends are lost by calling too often and by not calling often enough."
"French","From bishop to turn miller."
"French","Half figs, half raisins."
"French","He who has much, wants more."
"French","Handsome cats and fat dung heaps are the sign of a good farmer."
"French","Hatred watches while friendship sleeps."
"French","Hang a thief when he's young, and he'll not steal when he's old."
"French","Happy is the man who has a handsome wife close to an abbey."
"French","Happy the child whose father goes to the devil."
"French","Hares are not caught by the sound of the drum."
"French","Harm watch, harm catch."
"French","Foul linen should be washed at home."
"French","Half the truth is often a whole lie."
"French","Every one preaches for his own saint."
"French","Every one bears his cross."
"French","Every one draws the water to his own mill."
"French","Every one feels his own burden heavy."
"French","Every one for himself, and God for us all."
"French","Every one has a fool in his sleeve."
"French","Every road leads to Rome."
"French","Every one knows best where the shoe pinches him."
"French","Every miller draws the water to his own mill."
"French","Every one says: My right is good."
"French","Every one says: My right is good."
"French","Every one should sweep before his own door."
"French","Every one takes his flogging in his own way."
"French","Every one takes his pleasure where he finds it."
"French","Feather by feather the goose can be plucked."
"French","Every one his own, is but fair."
"French","Every fool likes his bauble."
"French","Even the tiniest little chapel has its saint."
"French","Every age wants its playthings."
"French","Every art requires the open person."
"French","Every art requires the whole person."
"French","Every bee's honey is sweet."
"French","Every doctor thinks his pills are the best."
"French","Every mother-in-law is a piece of the devil's pants."
"French","Every elm has its man."
"French","Every monkey will have his gambols."
"French","Every fox carries his tail his own way."
"French","Every hooked beak is maintained by prey."
"French","Every man has his value."
"French","Every man to his taste."
"French","Every medal has its reverse."
"French","Every to-morrow brings its bread."
"French","Every dog is valiant in his own kennel."
"French","Fair without, foul within."
"French","Example is the greatest of all seducers."
"French","Faint heart never won fair lady."
"French","Fair and softly goes far."
"French","Fair feathers make fair fowls."
"French","Fair flowers do not remain long by the wayside."
"French","Every potter vaunts his own pot."
"French","Fair things are soon snatched away."
"French","Everything must have a beginning."
"French","Fair, good, rich, and wise, is a woman four stories high."
"French","Farewell baskets, the vintage is ended."
"French","Fashion is a tyrant from which there is no deliverance; all must conform to its whimsical."
"French","Fat broth cannot be made of nothing."
"French","Fat pastures make fat venison."
"French","He asks advice in vain who will not follow it."
"French","Fair is he that comes, but fairer he that brings."
"French","Everything comes to the man who does not need it."
"French","Every wise man is afraid of a fool."
"French","Every woman needs two men -- one to be married to and the other to compare."
"French","Everybody has a hump when he stoops."
"French","Everybody is wise after the thing has happened."
"French","Everybody must live."
"French","Everyone according to their talent and every talent according to its work."
"French","Everything passes; everything wears out; everything breaks."
"French","Everyone thinks his own burden is heavy."
"French","Everything passes, everything wears out, everything breaks."
"French","Everything does not fall that totters."
"French","Everything goes by favour and cousinship."
"French","Everything goes to him who does not want it."
"French","Everything in time comes to him who knows how to wait."
"French","Everything may be bought except day and night."
"French","Fear is a great inventor."
"French","Everyone blames his memory, but never his judgement."
"French","He was born on a Sunday, he likes work ready done."
"French","He who can lick can bite."
"French","Hasten leisurely."
"French","He that will get the better of a fox must rise early."
"French","He that would eat the kernel must crack the nut."
"French","He that would go to sea for pleasure would go to hell for a pastime."
"French","He had need rise early who would please everybody."
"French","He that would keep his house clean must not let priest or pigeon into it."
"French","He that waits for a dead man's shoes may long go barefoot."
"French","He was born with a caul."
"French","He was slain that had warning, not he that took it."
"French","He wears the mourning of his washerwoman."
"French","He who begins and does not finish loses his labour."
"French","He who bestirs himself sucks up, he who lies still dries up."
"French","He that lets his fish escape, may cast his net often yet never catch it again."
"French","He that would hang his dog, gives out first, that he is mad."
"French","He that spends more than he is worth spins a rope for his own neck."
"French","He that parts with his property before his death prepares himself for much suffering."
"French","He that reckons without his host must reckon again."
"French","He that refuseth praise the first time does it because he would have it the second."
"French","He that repairs not a part, builds all."
"French","He that rewards flattery, begs it."
"French","He that wants to keep his house clean must not let priest or pigeon into it."
"French","He that seeks trouble never misses."
"French","He who cannot speak well of his trade does not understand it."
"French","He that stays in the valley will not get over the hill."
"French","He that stumbles and falls not, mends his pace."
"French","He that takes too great a leap falls into the ditch."
"French","He that telleth his wife news is but lately married."
"French","He that that hath a head of wax must not approach the fire."
"French","He that ventures not fails not."
"French","He that runs fast will not run long."
"French","He who has a head of wax must not go near the fire."
"French","He who can give has many a good neighbour."
"French","He who goes abroad by day has no need of a lantern."
"French","He who goes everywhere gains everywhere."
"French","He who goes to collect wool may come back shorn."
"French","He who grasps at too much loses everything."
"French","He who gets out of debt enriches himself."
"French","He who has a companion has a master."
"French","He who fondles you more than usual has either deceived you or wants to so."
"French","He who has a stepmother has the devil at his hearth."
"French","He who has daughters is always a shepherd."
"French","He who has drunk will drink."
"French","He who has everything is content with nothing."
"French","He who has his purse full preaches to the poor man."
"French","He who has money has capers."
"French","He who grasps too much holds not firmly."
"French","He who does not bait his hook fishes in vain."
"French","He who caresses thee more than the occasion justifies, has either deceived thee or intends it."
"French","He who carries nothing loses nothing."
"French","He who carries one burden will soon carry a hundred."
"French","He who chooses takes the worst."
"French","He who comes from afar may lie without fear of contradiction as he is sure to be listened to with the utmost attention."
"French","He who gives to the poor loans to God."
"French","He who dispraises a thing, wants to buy it."
"French","He that walks too hastily, often stumbles in plain way."
"French","He who does not gain loses."
"French","He who does not tire, tires adversity."
"French","He who does nothing does ill."
"French","He who eats of the king's goose will void a feather forty years after."
"French","He who eats the king's cow lean, pays for it fat."
"French","He who fears to suffer, suffers from fear."
"French","He who curbs his desires will always be rich enough."
"French","He is rich enough who owes nothing."
"French","He is like a cat, he always falls on his feet."
"French","He is like a silver pin, Fair without, but foul within."
"French","He is like a singed cat, better than he looks."
"French","He is like the gardener's dog, who don't eat cabbage and will let no one else eat them."
"French","He is not escaped who drags his chain."
"French","He knocks boldly at the door who brings good news."
"French","He is past preaching to who does not care to do well."
"French","He that will bare-foot go must not plant a garden of thistle."
"French","He is rich that is satisfied."
"French","He is rich who is satisfied."
"French","He is rich who owes nothing."
"French","He is the devil's valet, he does more that he is ordered."
"French","He is the more obstinate for being advised."
"French","He is the wisest man who does not think himself so."
"French","He is not so much of a devil as he is black."
"French","He has put all his eggs into one basket."
"French","He has a good pledge of the cat who has her skin."
"French","He has a very hard heart who does not love May."
"French","He has eaten his corn in the blade."
"French","He has enough to do who holds the handle of a frying-pan."
"French","He has enough who is content."
"French","He has great need of a fool who makes himself one."
"French","He that leaves certainty and sticks to chance, When fools pipe he may dance."
"French","He has nothing who has not enough."
"French","He is a very bad manager of honey who leaves nothing to lick off his fingers."
"French","He is a fool who makes a mallet of his fist."
"French","He is a fool who makes his physician his heir."
"French","He is a great fool who forgets himself."
"French","He is a horse with four white feet."
"French","He is a thief indeed who robs a thief."
"French","He is called clever who cheats and plunders his friend."
"French","He has not done who is beginning."
"French","He that hides can find."
"French","He knows enough who knows how to live and keep his own counsel."
"French","He slumbers enough who does nothing."
"French","He sups ill who eats up all at dinner."
"French","He that corrects not youth, controls not age."
"French","He that does not ask will never get a bargain."
"French","He sins as much who holds the bag as he who puts into it."
"French","He that hath a wife is sure of strife."
"French","He ruins himself in promises, and clears himself by giving nothing."
"French","He that holds the handle of a frying-pan runs the risk of burning himself."
"French","He that hunts two hares will catch neither."
"French","He that is ashamed to eat is ashamed to live."
"French","He that is born to be hanged shall never be drowned."
"French","He that is thrown would still wrestle."
"French","He that is too much in haste, may stumble on a good road."
"French","He that has not money in his purse should have honey in his mouth."
"French","He never was a friend who has ceased to be one."
"French","He lies like a toothdrawer."
"French","He looks for his ass and sits on its back."
"French","He looks one way and rows another."
"French","He may lie boldly who comes from afar."
"French","He may swim boldly who is held up by the chin."
"French","He sleeps securely who has nothing to lose."
"French","He never did a good day's work who went grumblingly about it."
"French","He that is too secure is not safe."
"French","He pays dear for honey who licks it off thorns."
"French","He pays for the glasses who breaks them."
"French","He plays well that wins."
"French","He pulls at a long rope who desires another's death."
"French","He puts his sickle into another man's harvest."
"French","He that laughs on Friday may cry on Sunday."
"French","He needs say nothing about the score who pays nothing."
"French","Riches serve a wise man, but command a fool."
"French","Saying well causes a laugh; doing well produces silence."
"French","Saving is getting."
"French","Reckless youth makes rueful age."
"French","Saint cannot if God will not."
"French","Really to stop criticism one must die."
"French","Sadness and gladness succeed each other."
"French","Rust wastes more than use."
"French","See a pin and let it lie, you'll want a pin before you die."
"French","Riches run after the rich, and poverty runs after the poor."
"French","Rich garments weep on unworthy shoulders."
"French","Repute hangs a man."
"French","Repentance costs very dear."
"French","Religious contention is the devil's harvest."
"French","Rebukes ought not to have a grain more of salt than of sugar."
"French","Reasonings banish reason."
"French","Reasonable people can differ."
"French","Reason not with the great, 'tis a perilous gate."
"French","See a pin and pick it up, all the day you'll have good luck; see a pin and let it lie, bad luck you'll have all day."
"French","Remember that everyone you meet is afraid of something, loves something, and has lost something."
"French","Smoke, floods, and a troublesome wife, are enough to drive a man out of his life."
"French","Some think they have done when they are only beginning."
"French","Pity is akin to love."
"French","Some sell and don't deliver."
"French","Ready money works great cures."
"French","One must talk soothingly to the dog until one has passed him."
"French","Some have bread who have no teeth left."
"French","One never gets more than one's money's worth of anything."
"French","Soft words scald not the tongue."
"French","Soft words don't scotch the tongue."
"French","Some have fine eyes and can't see a jot."
"French","Snarling curs never want sore ears."
"French","Serve as a serf or fly like a deer."
"French","Slanderers are the devil's bellows, to blow up contention."
"French","Slander! slander! some of it always sticks."
"French","Skeptics are never deceived."
"French","Six things have no business in the world: a fighting priest, a coward knight, a covetous judge, a stinking barber, a soft-hearted mother, and an itchy baker."
"French","Since the wine is drawn it must be drunk."
"French","Shoemakers are always the worst shod."
"French","Setting out well is a quarter of the journey."
"French","Set your sail to the wind."
"French","Set your sail according to the wind."
"French","Snivelling folks always want to wipe other folks' noses."
"French","Out with the old, in with the new."
"French","People take more pains to be damned than to be saved."
"French","People make the bells say what they please."
"French","The fox says of the mulberries when he cannot get at them; they are not good at all."
"French","People lend only to the rich."
"French","Youth must be served."
"French","People count up the faults of those who keep them waiting."
"French","Patience is the virtue of asses."
"French","Parsley seed goes nine times to the Devil."
"French","Popularity is the small change of glory."
"French","Paper bears anything."
"French","Pills must be swallowed without chewing."
"French","Out of yes and no comes all dispute."
"French","Other times, other manners."
"French","Only he who does nothing makes a mistake."
"French","One should choose a wife with the ears, rather than with the eyes."
"French","One scabby sheep is enough to spoil the whole flock."
"French","One often has need of a lesser than oneself."
"French","One never goes so far as when one don't know whither one is going."
"French","Some thinking to avenge their shame increase it."
"French","Paris was not built in a day."
"French","Precious ointments are put in small boxes."
"French","Rather a single grape for me than a brace of figs for thee."
"French","Rage avails less than courage."
"French","Quarrels do not last long if the wrong is only on one side."
"French","Put the belfry in the middle of the village."
"French","Punctuality is the sole of business."
"French","Punctuality is the politeness of princes."
"French","Pulling the devil by the tail does not lead far young or old."
"French","Princes will not be served on conditions."
"French","People who have bread to eat do not appreciate the severity of a famine."
"French","Princes keep good reckoning, they never lose anything."
"French","Pick and choose, and take the worst."
"French","Pray, pray very much; but beware of telling God what you want."
"French","Poverty is not a vice."
"French","Poverty is a sort of leprosy."
"French","Possession is the grave of pleasure."
"French","Possession is nine tenths of the law."
"French","Possession is nine points of the law."
"French","Possession is as good as a title."
"French","Policy goes beyond strength."
"French","Rats desert a sinking ship."
"French","Princes use men as the husbandman uses bees."
"French","The dead are soon forgotten."
"French","The blade wears out the sheath."
"French","The devil's meal turns half to bran."
"French","The devil was so fond of his children that he plucked out their eyes."
"French","The devil was sick, the Devil a saint would be; the Devil was well, the devil a saint was he."
"French","The devil was handsome when he was young."
"French","The devil rebukes sin."
"French","The devil often lurks behind the cross."
"French","The devil may die without my inheriting his horns."
"French","The dog gets into the mill under cover of the ass."
"French","The devil is not always at a poor man's door."
"French","The dog may be wonderful prose, but only the cat is poetry."
"French","The days follow each other and are not alike."
"French","The corn falls out of a shaken sheaf."
"French","The cobbler always wears the worst shoes."
"French","The coalheaver is master at home."
"French","The cask always smells of the herring."
"French","The candle that goes before, is better than that which comes after."
"French","The busiest men have the most leisure."
"French","The bud becomes a rose and the rose a hip."
"French","The fool hunts for misfortune."
"French","The devil leads him by the nose who the dice too often throws."
"French","The first comer grinds first."
"French","The fox thrives best when he is most cursed."
"French","The fox thinks everybody eats poultry like himself."
"French","The fox that sleeps in the morning has not his tongue feathered."
"French","No living man all things can."
"French","The fool who is silent passes for wise."
"French","One must step back to make the better leap."
"French","The fool cuts himself with his own knife."
"French","The flawed pot lasts longest."
"French","The doctor is often more to be feared than the disease."
"French","The first step binds one to the second."
"French","The biter is often bit."
"French","The fault is great in proportion to him who commits it."
"French","The false friend is like the shadow of a sun-dial."
"French","The early riser is healthy, cheerful and industrious."
"French","The early man never borrows from the late man."
"French","The early bird catcheth the worm."
"French","The early bird catches the worm."
"French","The early bird catches the early worm."
"French","The ear is the road to the heart."
"French","The eagle does not hunt flies."
"French","The first step is all the difficulty."
"French","Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof."
"French","The bleating of the lamb merely arouses the tiger."
"French","Take heed of an enemy reconciled."
"French","Take down a rogue from the gallows and he will hang you up."
"French","Take away my good name, take away my life."
"French","Take away fuel, take away flame."
"French","Take an ox by his horn, a man by his word."
"French","Take a woman's first advice and not her second."
"French","Swim on and don't trust."
"French","Talk of the wolf and you see his tail."
"French","Suspicion is the poison of friendship."
"French","That brings water to the mill."
"French","Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof."
"French","Stolen waters are sweet."
"French","Stolen fruit is sweet."
"French","Stolen bread stirs the appetite."
"French","Spit not in the well, you may have to drink its water."
"French","Spare well and have to spend."
"French","Spare to speak and spare to speed."
"French","Soon gained soon squandered."
"French","Something is better than nothing."
"French","Sussex won't be druv."
"French","The belly overrules the head."
"French","The bird ought not to soil its own nest."
"French","The big fish eat the little ones."
"French","The best-laid schemes of mice and men gang aft agley."
"French","The best you get is an even break."
"French","The best wine has its lees."
"French","The best thing about a man is his dog."
"French","The best driver will sometimes upset."
"French","The best company must part, as King Dagobert said to his hounds."
"French","Take heed of an ox before. an ass behind, and a monk on all sides."
"French","The belly robs the back."
"French","Some who mean only to warm, burn themselves."
"French","The beaten pay the fine."
"French","The beast dead, the venom is dead."
"French","The beadle of the parish is always of the vicar's opinion."
"French","The balance in doing its office knows neither gold nor lead."
"French","The bagpipe never utters a work till its belly is full."
"French","The ass that is common property is always the worst saddled."
"French","The abbey does not fail for want on one monk."
"French","That often happens in a day which does not happen in a hundred years."
"French","That day is lost on which one has not laughed."
"French","The benefice must be taken with its liabilities."
"French","Money is lost only for want of money."
"French","No feast like a miser's."
"French","Much would have more, and lost all."
"French","Much worship, much cost."
"French","Much memory and little judgment."
"French","Much kindred, much trouble."
"French","Mother's love is ever in its spring."
"French","Money makes the mare to go."
"French","Money makes money."
"French","Muddy springs will have muddy streams."
"French","Money is round, it must roll."
"French","Naught must disturb a man of worth at dinner."
"French","Money is a good servant but a had master."
"French","Money burns many."
"French","Money borrowed is soon sorrowed."
"French","Money advances meacocks."
"French","Misfortunes are, in morals, what bitters are in medicine: each is at first disagreeable; but as the bitters act as corroborants to the stomach, so adversity chastens and ameliorates the disposition."
"French","Misfortune upon misfortune is not wholesome."
"French","Might overcomes right."
"French","Might knows no right."
"French","Mention not a rope in the house of one whose father was hanged."
"French","Money makes dogs dance."
"French","Never sell the bearskin till you have killed the bear."
"French","No lock will hold against the power of gold."
"French","No day so long but has its evening."
"French","Nip the briar in the bud."
"French","Nip sin in the bud."
"French","Nine tailors make a man."
"French","Night is the mother of councils."
"French","Night has no friend."
"French","New lords, new laws."
"French","Much would have more."
"French","Never send a boy to do a man's job."
"French","Men are rare."
"French","Never say, Fountain, I will not drink of thy water."
"French","Never put your finger between the tree and the bark."
"French","Never look for a worm in the apple of your eye."
"French","Never limp before the lame."
"French","Never cross a bridge till you come to it."
"French","Never choose your women or linen by candlelight."
"French","Never challenge a fool to do wrong."
"French","Near is my kirkle, but nearer is my smock."
"French","Naught venture, naught have."
"French","Never share a foxhole with anyone braver than you are."
"French","Light is bad for sore eyes."
"French","Loaves put awry into the oven come out crooked."
"French","Little presents maintain friendship."
"French","Little pitchers have long ears."
"French","Little by little the bird builds its nest."
"French","Little brooks make great rivers."
"French","Lion-skins were never had cheap."
"French","Link by link the coat of mail is made."
"French","Like saint like incense."
"French","Men's skins have many colors, but human blood is always red."
"French","Like box-makers, more noise than work."
"French","Long talk makes short days."
"French","Light burdens borne far become heavy."
"French","Life is half spent before one knows what life is."
"French","Liars need good memories."
"French","Let not your shirt know your way of thinking."
"French","Let him who is cold blow the fire."
"French","Let him who feels he has a dirty nose wipe it."
"French","Let every one mind his own business, and the cows will be well tended."
"French","Leave well alone."
"French","Leave the minster where it is."
"French","Like breeds like."
"French","Love, a cough, and smoke will not remain secret."
"French","No fine clothes can hide the clown."
"French","May chickens come cheeping."
"French","May and December never agree."
"French","Maturity consists of no longer being taken in by oneself."
"French","Mastiff never liked greyhound."
"French","Married to-day, married to-morrow."
"French","Marriages are written in heaven."
"French","Many are esteemed, only because they are not known."
"French","Many a one suffers for what he can't help."
"French","Long absence changes friends."
"French","Love, a cough, smoke, and money, cannot long be hid."
"French","Long on hair, short on brains."
"French","Love teaches even asses to dance."
"French","Love teaches asses to dance."
"French","Love subdues everything except the recreant's heart."
"French","Love makes time pass; time makes love pass."
"French","Love makes time pass away, and time makes love pass away."
"French","Love expels jealousy."
"French","Love does wonders, but money makes marriage."
"French","Love Bertrand love his dog."
"French","Men's ignorance makes the pot boil for priests."
"French","Many a one is good because he can do no mischief."
"French","One cannot be and have been."
"French","No dish pleases all palates alike."
"French","One fool always finds a greater fool to admire him."
"French","One flower will not make a garland."
"French","One does not always hit what one aims at."
"French","One deceit brings on another."
"French","One day is as good as two for him who does everything in its place."
"French","One catches more flies with a spoonful of honey than with twenty casks of vinegar."
"French","One cannot ring the bells and walk in the procession."
"French","One for sorrow; two for mirth; three for a wedding; four for a birth."
"French","One cannot be in two places at once."
"French","One for the mouse, one for the crow, one to rot, one to grow."
"French","One candle for St. Michael, and another for his devil."
"French","One can't make head or tail of it."
"French","One can't hinder the wind from blowing."
"French","One blind man leads another into the ditch."
"French","One barber shears another."
"French","One bad general is better than two good ones."
"French","One always returns to one's first love."
"French","One always knocks oneself in the sore place."
"French","One ""take this"" is worth more than two ""you shall have."""
"French","One cannot please everybody and one's father."
"French","One man, no man."
"French","One must needs like what one cannot hinder."
"French","One must lose a minnow to catch a salmon."
"French","One must howl with the wolves."
"French","One must be either anvil or hammer."
"French","One might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb."
"French","One meets his destiny often in the road he takes to avoid it."
"French","One may tire of eating tarts."
"French","One may steal nothing save a lawyer's purse."
"French","One foot is better then two stilts."
"French","One may as well be well beaten as badly beaten."
"French","Of two lookers on one is sure to become a player."
"French","One learns by failing."
"French","One knows not for whom he gathers."
"French","One is never soiled but by filth."
"French","One is never so rich as when one removes (from one house to another)."
"French","One hour's sleep before midnight is better than three after it."
"French","One has always strength enough to bear the misfortunes of one's friends."
"French","One half the world laughs at the other."
"French","One half the world knows not how the other half lives."
"French","One grows used to love and to fire."
"French","One may better steal a horse than another look over the hedge."
"French","No man understands knavery better than the abbot who has been a monk."
"French","Nobility is nothing but ancient riches, and money is the world's idol."
"French","Nobility imposes obligations."
"French","No wind can do him good who steers for no port."
"French","No sauce like appetite."
"French","No purchase like a gift."
"French","No one with a good catch of fish goes home by the back alley."
"French","No one will get a bargain he does not ask for."
"French","No one is so liberal as he who has nothing to give."
"French","Old love and old brands kindle at all seasons."
"French","No one is expected to achieve the impossible."
"French","Not every one that dances is glad."
"French","No man is an island, but some of us are long peninsulas."
"French","No man is a prophet in his own country."
"French","No longer pipe, no longer dance."
"French","The Fox's wiles will never enter the lion's head."
"French","No lock avails against a hatchet."
"French","The wine given to your workmen is that for which you get the best paid."
"French","No jesting with edged tools."
"French","No fishing like fishing in the sea."
"French","No fire without smoke."
"French","No one is so generous as he who has nothing to give."
"French","Nothing is more like an honest man than a rogue."
"French","One must pass through the door or the window."
"French","Of little cloth but a short cloak."
"French","Nothing venture, nothing gain."
"French","Nothing to be got without pains but poverty."
"French","Nothing stake, nothing draw."
"French","Nothing so good as forbidden fruit."
"French","Nothing so bold as a miller's shirt (because it takes a thief by the throat every morning)."
"French","Nothing is so liberally given as advice."
"French","Nothing is so burthensome as a secret."
"French","None so busy as those who do nothing."
"French","Nothing is more ridiculous or troublesome than mere ceremony."
"French","Not every dog that barks bites."
"French","Nothing is more contagious than a bad example."
"French","Nothing is impossible to a willing mind."
"French","Nothing is had for nothing."
"French","Nothing is easy to the unwilling."
"French","Nothing is done while something remains undone."
"French","Nothing happens for nothing."
"French","Nothing grows old sooner than a kindness."
"French","Not every sort of wood is fit to make an arrow."
"French","Old friends and new reckonings."
"French","Nothing is so burdensome as a secret."
"French","What is new is always fine."
"French","Well-regulated charity begins with one's self."
"French","What you can't get is just what suits you."
"French","What was hard to endure is sweet to recall."
"French","What the sober man keeps in his heart, is on the tongue of the drunkard."
"French","What the gauntlet wins the gorget consumes."
"French","What the eye doesn't see, the heart doesn't grieve over."
"French","What the colt learns in youth his continues in old age."
"French","What the child hears at the fireside is soon known at the parish church."
"French","When a man begins to reason, he ceases to feel."
"French","What is true is not always probable."
"French","When a man's friend marries, all is over between them."
"French","What is learned in the cradle lasts till the grave."
"French","What is enough was never little."
"French","What is bad for one is good for another."
"French","What comes from the fife goes back to the drum."
"French","What a neighbor gets is not lost."
"French","What a monk thinks he dares to do."
"French","Were the devil to come from hell to fight, there would forthwith be a Frenchman to accept the challenge."
"French","Were if not for ""if"" and ""but,"" we should all be rich for ever."
"French","When there is no wind every man is a pilot."
"French","What is worth receiving is worth returning."
"French","When the cage is ready the bird is flown."
"French","The weakest must hold the candle."
"French","When the tree is down everybody runs to the branches."
"French","When the furze is in bloom, my love's in tune."
"French","When the friar's beaten, then comes James."
"French","When the Frenchman sleeps the devil rocks him."
"French","When the door is low one must stoop."
"French","When the dog is drowning every one brings him water."
"French","When the devil says his paternosters he means to cheat you."
"French","When a cow is lost it is something to recover its tail, were it only to make a handle for one's door."
"French","When the child is christened you will have godfathers enough."
"French","Well fed but ill taught."
"French","When the blind man carries the banner, woe to those who follow."
"French","When one is dead, it is for a long while."
"French","When one has not what one likes, one must like what one has."
"French","When Greek meets Greek, then comes the tug of war."
"French","When goods increase the body decreases."
"French","When glory comes memory departs."
"French","When all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail."
"French","When all sins grow old covetousness is young."
"French","When all other sins are old avarice is still young."
"French","When the devil grows old he turns himself hermit."
"French","Tread on a worm and it will turn."
"French","Went in one ear and out the other."
"French","'Twixt the word and the deed there's a long step."
"French","'Twixt the cup and the lip there's many a slip."
"French","Turn your tongue seven times before speaking."
"French","Truth is the club that knocks down and kills everybody."
"French","Trust not to God but upon good security."
"French","True nobility is invulnerable."
"French","True jokes never please."
"French","Two of a kind, whate'er they be."
"French","Trickery comes back to its master."
"French","Two sparrows on the same ear of corn are not long friends."
"French","Travellers from afar can lie with impunity."
"French","Trade knows neither friends or kindred."
"French","Trade follows the flag."
"French","Tough times don't last but tough people do."
"French","Touch not another man's money, for the most honest never added to it."
"French","Too to will in two."
"French","Too much zeal spoils all."
"French","Too much water drowned the miller."
"French","Too much scratching smarts, too much talking harms."
"French","Trim my beard, and I will trim your top-knot."
"French","Vessels large may venture more, But little boats must keep near shore."
"French","Wedlock rides in the saddle and repentance on the crupper."
"French","Weather, wind, women, and fortune change like the moon."
"French","We shall see, as the blind man said."
"French","We never know the worth of water till the well is dry."
"French","We must learn to walk before we can run."
"French","We must have reasons for speech but we need none for silence."
"French","We know the worth of a thing when we have lost it."
"French","War is much too serious a matter to be entrusted to the military."
"French","Two men may meet, but never two mountains."
"French","Wait until it is night before saying that it has been a fine day."
"French","When thieves fall out the thefts are discovered."
"French","Very hard times in the wood when the wolves eat each other."
"French","Very good corn grows in little fields."
"French","Vanity has no greater foe than vanity."
"French","Vainglory bears no grain."
"French","Upon an egg the hen lays an egg."
"French","Upon a slight pretext the wolf takes the sheep."
"French","Upbraiding makes a benefit an injury."
"French","Unstringing the bow does not cure the wound."
"French","Unless hell is full no lawyer will ever be saved."
"French","Wake not a sleeping cat."
"French","Why kill time when one can employ it?"
"French","Who wishes to travel far spares his steed."
"French","Without bread and wine even love will pine."
"French","With the help of an If you might put Paris into a bottle."
"French","With enough 'ifs' we could put Paris in a bottle."
"French","With an old husband's hide one buys a young one."
"French","Wishes never filled the bag."
"French","Wine will not keep in a foul vessel."
"French","Wine poured out is not wine swallowed."
"French","Witticisms spare no one."
"French","Will is power."
"French","Women, money, and wine have their balm and their harm."
"French","Why keep a dog and bark yourself?"
"French","Why buy a cow when milk is so cheap?"
"French","Why buy a cow if you can get the milk for free."
"French","Why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?"
"French","Whosoever draws his sword against the prince must throw the scabbard away."
"French","Whoso is well let him keep so."
"French","Whoso hath land hath war."
"French","Who won't be ruled by the rudder must be ruled by the rock."
"French","When the words are said, the holy water is made."
"French","Will laugh well who will laugh the last."
"French","You cannot make bricks without straw."
"French","He that hides can find."
"French","Laziness is often mistaken for patience."
"French","Youth may stray afar yet return at last."
"French","Youth lives on hope, old age on remembrance."
"French","Young people tell what they are doing, old people what they have done, and fools what they wish to do."
"French","You play with edged tools."
"French","You pays your money and you takes your choice."
"French","You often meet your fate on the road you take to avoid it."
"French","Without business, debauchery."
"French","You may as well give a good beating as a bad one."
"French","Who spits against the wind spits in his own face."
"French","You cannot make an omelet without breaking eggs."
"French","You cannot make an ass drink if he is not thirsty."
"French","You cannot make a hawk of a buzzard."
"French","You cannot get oil out of a wall."
"French","Write injuries in the sand, kindnesses in marble."
"French","Write injuries in dust, But kindnesses in marble. [Fr., Eerivez les injures sue le sable, Mais les bienfaits sur le marbre.]"
"French","Words are the leaves of the tree of language, of which, if some fall away, a new succession takes their place."
"French","Words are but sands; 'tis money buys lands."
"French","Word by word the big books are made."
"French","You may know the lion by his claw."
"French","Whilst the dogs are growling at each other the wolf devours the sheep."
"French","Who wives for a dower, resigns his own power."
"French","Who eats capon, capon comes to him."
"French","Who draws his sword against his prince must throw away his scabbard."
"French","Who doubts errs not."
"French","Who does not venture gets neither horse nor mule, and who ventures too much lose horse and mule."
"French","Who could live without hope?"
"French","Who cannot work out his salvation by heart will not do it by book."
"French","Who blows his nose too hard makes it bleed."
"French","Who has not, cannot."
"French","White meal is not got out of a coal-sack."
"French","Who hears but one bell hears but one sound."
"French","Where there is nothing the king loses his rights."
"French","Where there is no sore there needs no plaister."
"French","Where the wasp has passed the fly sticks fast."
"French","Where the hostess is handsome the wine is good."
"French","Where the hedge is lowest men jump over."
"French","Where the goat is tied she must browse."
"French","Where misfortune befals injuries follow."
"French","When you are well off keep as you are."
"French","When we cannot get what we love, we must love what is within our reach."
"French","Who answers for another pays."
"French","Who pays the piper calls the tune."
"French","Who spits against heaven, it falls on his head."
"French","Who speaks, sows; who listens, reaps."
"French","Who sows thorns let him not walk bare-foot."
"French","Who sows reaps."
"French","Who serves well asks enough."
"French","Who serves the mass is thanked by none, but cursed if aught left undone."
"French","Who rises late must trot all day."
"French","Who refuses, muses."
"French","Who goes and returns makes a journey."
"French","Who proves too much proves nothing."
"French","To whom do you offer your shells for sale? To people who come from Saint Michel (where shells abound)."
"French","Who pays soon borrows when he will."
"French","Who loves well is slow to forget."
"French","Who looks not before finds himself behind."
"French","Who lives will see."
"French","Who lives on the score has shame evermore."
"French","Who lends to a friend loses doubly."
"French","Who knows nothing doubts nothing."
"French","Who is born of a cat will run after mice. (An illusion to one of Aesop's fables.)"
"French","Who hears music feels his solitude."
"French","Who punishes one threatens a hundred."
"French","The nimblest footman is a false tale."
"French","The most covered fire is always the most glowing."
"French","The saint who works no cures has few pilgrims to his shrine."
"French","The richest man carries nothing away with him but a shroud."
"French","The rich man has more relations than he knows."
"French","The reputation of a man is like his shadow; it sometimes follows and sometimes precedes him, it is sometimes longer and sometimes shorter than his natural size."
"French","The pitcher goes often to the well and gets broken at last."
"French","The only way to keep a secret is to say nothing."
"French","The one-eyed are kings in the land of the blind."
"French","The sea has an enormous thirst and an insatiable appetite."
"French","The noise is so great one cannot hear God thunder."
"French","The sea refuses no river."
"French","The night brings counsel."
"French","The niggard spends as much as he who is liberal, and in the end more."
"French","The nearer the minster the later to mass."
"French","The mule long keeps a kick in reserve for its master."
"French","The mouse has but one hole is soon caught."
"French","The mountaineer's ass carries wine and drinks water."
"French","The most lasting monuments are doubtless paper-monuments."
"French","The most friendly fortune trips up your heels."
"French","Too late to grieve when the chance is past."
"French","The old monkey gets the apple."
"French","The stronger the seam the worse the rent."
"French","The wolf will die in his skin."
"French","The wolf is not as big as people make him."
"French","The wit one wants spoils what one has."
"French","The wine is not known by the hoops."
"French","The will is taken for the deed."
"French","The town that parleys is half surrendered."
"French","The tongue wounds more than a lance."
"French","The threatener sometimes gets a beating."
"French","The saint's-day over, farewell the saint."
"French","The sun shines for all the world."
"French","The more you stir it the worse it stinks."
"French","The stable wears out a horse more than the road."
"French","The skin is nearer than the shirt."
"French","The silence of the people is a warning for the king."
"French","The shovel scouts the poker."
"French","The sheep that is too tame is sucked by too many lambs."
"French","The sheep on the mountain is higher than the bull on the plain."
"French","The secret of two is God's secret, the secret of three is everybody's secret."
"French","The second blow makes the fray."
"French","The seagull sees farthest who flies highest."
"French","The tail is the hardest to scourge."
"French","The handsomest woman can only give what she has."
"French","The most cunning are the first caught."
"French","The Italians cry, the Germans bawl, and the French sing."
"French","The interested friend is a swallow on the roof. (Prepared to leave at the approach of winter.)"
"French","The ill year comes in swimming."
"French","The hunchback does not see his own hump, but he sees his brother's."
"French","The horse that draws most is most whipped."
"French","The hen's eyes are with her chickens."
"French","The hen ought not to cackle in presence of the cock."
"French","The last come is the best liked."
"French","The have always returns to her form."
"French","The last comers are often the masters."
"French","The greatest hate springs from the greatest love."
"French","The greatest evidence of demoralization is the respect paid to wealth."
"French","The greatest cunning is to have none at all."
"French","The greatest burdens are not the gainfullest."
"French","The gown is hers that wears it; and the world is his who enjoys it."
"French","The gown does not make the monk."
"French","The goslings would lead the geese out to grass."
"French","The Germans carry their wit in their fingers."
"French","The gentle hawk mans herself."
"French","The heart leads whither it goes."
"French","The man has neither sense nor reason who leaves a young wife at home."
"French","The more you stir it the more it stinks."
"French","The more haste the worse speed."
"French","The more fools, the more laughter."
"French","The more a man exposes his nakedness the colder he is."
"French","The monk that begs for God's sake begs for two."
"French","The money paid, the workman's arm is broken."
"French","The miser and the pig are of no use till dead."
"French","The merchant who gains not, loseth."
"French","The kettle smuts the frying-pan."
"French","The maxims of men disclose their hearts."
"French","The worst jests are those that are true."
"French","The little alms are the good alms."
"French","The listener makes the backbiter."
"French","The list is worse than the cloth."
"French","The less one thinks, the more one speaks."
"French","The leaves fall before the tree dies."
"French","The lawyer's pouch is a mouth of hell."
"French","The law says what the king pleases."
"French","The last drop maketh the cup run over."
"French","The last drop makes the cup run over."
"French","The merchant that loses cannot laugh."
"French","To a rogue a rogue and a half."
"French","The word of honour of a gentleman--another pledge would be better."
"French","To get the chicks one must coax the hen."
"French","To every lord every honour."
"French","To every bird its nest seems fair."
"French","To eat and drink, and sleep together, is marriage, methinks."
"French","To do, one must be doing."
"French","To do like the monkey, get the chesnuts out of the fire with the cat's paw."
"French","To compare is not to prove."
"French","To go as fast as a friar that is invited to dinner."
"French","To be willing is to be able."
"French","To grow rich one has only to turn his back on God."
"French","To a good cat a good rat."
"French","To a bold man fortune holds out her hand."
"French","'Tis the last straw that breaks the camel's back."
"French","'Tis sweet at certain times to drop the sage."
"French","'Tis possible if true."
"French","'Tis everywhere the same as here."
"French","'Tis a silly sheep that makes the wolf her confessor."
"French","'Tis a long day a day without bread."
"French","'Tis a good horse that has no fault."
"French","To believe a thing impossible is to make it so."
"French","To rob a robber is not robbing."
"French","The friendship of great men is like the shadow of a bush, soon gone."
"French","To wash an ass's head is but loss of time and soap. (To reprove a fool is but lost labour.)"
"French","To want to forget something is to remember it."
"French","To the jaundiced all things seem yellow."
"French","To the devil with so many masters, said the toad to the harrow."
"French","To squeeze an eel too hard is the way to lose it."
"French","To see it rain is better than to be in it."
"French","To scare a bird is not the way to catch it."
"French","To give tardily is to refuse."
"French","To rude words deaf ears."
"French","Thrive by honesty or remain poor."
"French","To rise at six, eat at ten, sup at six, go to bed at ten, makes a man live years ten times ten."
"French","To rise at five, dine at nine, sup at five, go to bed at nine, makes a man live to ninety-nine."
"French","To one who has a pie in the oven you may give a bit of your cake."
"French","To make a happy couple, the husband must be deaf and the wife blind."
"French","To love is to choose."
"French","To love and to be wise are two different things."
"French","To leave a place is to die a little."
"French","To know all is to forgive all."
"French","To know a man well one must have eaten a bushel of salt with him."
"French","To rule the mountains is to rule the river."
"French","There are no foolish trades, there are only foolish people."
"French","There is no pot so bad but finds it cover."
"French","There is no place like home."
"French","There is no pillow so soft as a clear conscience."
"French","There is no hunting but with old hounds."
"French","There is no flying without wings."
"French","There is no chapel so small but has its saint."
"French","There is no bush so small but casts its shadow."
"French","There is a pinch of the madman in every great man."
"French","'Tis a good farthing that saves a penny."
"French","There are toys for all ages."
"French","There is no such thing as a pretty good omelet."
"French","There are no children now-a-days."
"French","There are more old drunkards than old doctors."
"French","There are more foolish buyers than foolish sellers."
"French","There are good dogs of all sizes."
"French","There are fagots and fagots (all are not alike)."
"French","Their harms, our arms."
"French","Their dogs don't hunt in couples."
"French","The worst wheel always creaks most."
"French","Too late the bird cries out when it is caught."
"French","There are two great pleasures in gambling: winning and losing."
"French","There's no guarding against the privy thief."
"French","The worst clothed go to windward."
"French","Thrift is better than an annuity."
"French","Though the fool waits, the day does not."
"French","Think much, say little, write less."
"French","They say is a fool."
"French","There's virtue in a man's face (i.e., presence carries weight)."
"French","There's nothing like having the key of the fields."
"French","There's nothing like being bespattered for making a man defy the gutter."
"French","There's not enough if there's not too much."
"French","There is no pride like that of a beggar grown rich."
"French","There's no need to grease the fat pig's rump."
"French","There is no spite like that of a proud beggar."
"French","There's neither rhyme nor reason."
"French","There never was a looking-glass that told a woman she was ugly."
"French","There never was a banquet so sumptuous but some one dined ill at it."
"French","There is one who kisses, and the other who offers a cheek."
"French","There is nothing so well done but may be mended."
"French","There is no worse water than that which sleeps."
"French","There is no worse water than still water."
"French","There is no such thing as an insignificant enemy."
"French","Tired folks are quarrelsome."
"French","There's no showing the wolf to a bad dog."
"French","Ask no questions and hear no lies."
"French","Anoint a villain and he will prick you, prick a villain and he will anoint you."
"French","Avarice bursts the bag."
"French","At the wars as they do at the wars."
"French","At the king's court every one for himself."
"French","At Shrove-tide every one had need of his frying-pan."
"French","At Rome do as Rome does."
"French","At borrowing cousin german, at repaying son of a whore."
"French","At a little fountain one drinks at one's ease."
"French","Avarice is never satisfied."
"French","Asses must not be tied up with horses."
"French","Bad news has wings."
"French","Ask my comrade, who is as great a liar as myself."
"French","As the wind so the sail."
"French","As the man is worth his land is worth."
"French","Arrange your cloak as the wind blows."
"French","Are there not spots on the sun?"
"French","April showers bring forth May flowers."
"French","Appetite comes with eating."
"French","Any water puts out fire."
"French","Better to wear out than rust out."
"French","At a bridge, a plank, a river, the servant foremost, the master behind."
"French","Bells call to church but do not enter."
"French","A woman who accepts, sells herself; a woman who gives, surrenders."
"French","Better to have a friend on the road than gold or silver in your purse."
"French","Better to be envied than pitied."
"French","Better lose the wool than the sheep."
"French","Better be the head of a dog than the tail of a lion."
"French","Better be mad with all the world than wise alone."
"French","Better be an old man's darling than a young man's slave."
"French","Better be a coward than foolhardy."
"French","Avarice increases with wealth."
"French","Better a good dinner than a fine coat."
"French","Anger is a bad counsellor."
"French","Belles are not for the beaux."
"French","Bees touch no fading flowers."
"French","Bees that have honey in their mouths have stings in their tails."
"French","Bees do not become hornets."
"French","Beauty, unaccompanied by virtue, is as a flower without perfume."
"French","Be truly what thou wouldst be thought to be."
"French","Be a horse ever so well shod, he may slip."
"French","Bad watch often feeds the wolf."
"French","Bad ware is never cheap."
"French","Better a slip of the foot than of the tongue."
"French","After me the deluge."
"French","Another's misfortune is only a dream."
"French","All his geese are swans."
"French","All heads are not sense-boxes."
"French","All cats are not to be set down for witches."
"French","All cats are alike grey at night."
"French","After the daughter is married, then come sons-in-law in plenty."
"French","After the act wishing is in vain."
"French","After rain fine weather."
"French","All is not lost that is delayed."
"French","After mischance every one is wise."
"French","All is well that ends well."
"French","After a storm comes a calm."
"French","After a feast a man scratches his head."
"French","Advisers are not the payers."
"French","Adversity makes strange bedfellows."
"French","Adversity makes a man wise."
"French","According to the arm be the bleeding."
"French","A young angel, an old devil."
"French","A woman's tongue is her sword, and she does not let it rust."
"French","Everything does not fall that totters."
"French","After one loss come many."
"French","An art requires a whole man."
"French","An ounce of luck is worth a pound of wisdom."
"French","An ounce of favour goes further, or is worth more, than a pound of justice."
"French","An old rat is a brave rat."
"French","An old oven is easier to heat than a new one."
"French","An old ape never made a pretty grimace."
"French","An enemy may chance to give good counsel."
"French","An enemy does not sleep."
"French","An eel escapes from a good fisherman."
"French","All is luck or ill luck in this world."
"French","An ass does not stumble twice over the same stone."
"French","Better walk before a hen than behind an ox."
"French","An army marches on its stomach."
"French","An apple, an egg, and a nut, You may eat after a slut."
"French","An apple a day keeps the doctor away."
"French","An apothecary ought not to be long a cuckold."
"French","Always talk big and you will never be forgotten."
"French","Always in love, never married."
"French","All truths are not good to be uttered."
"French","All the treasures of earth cannot bring back one lost moment."
"French","All state, and nothing on the plate."
"French","An easy shepherd makes the wolf void wool."
"French","Dreams go by contraries."
"French","Don't run too far, you will have to return the same distance."
"French","Empty casks make the most noise."
"French","Elbow-grease is a great preventative of disease."
"French","Eggs are put to hatch on a chance."
"French","Eat bread at pleasure, drink wine by measure."
"French","Easy to say is hard to do."
"French","Drop by drop fills the tub."
"French","Dressed like a windmill."
"French","Empty sacks will never stand upright."
"French","Dress makes the man."
"French","Envy goes beyond avarice."
"French","Dreams are lies."
"French","Dread the anger of the dove."
"French","Don't teach your grandmother to suck eggs."
"French","Don't teach fishes to swim."
"French","Don't talk Latin before the Franciscans."
"French","Don't speak to the man at the helm."
"French","Don't snap your fingers at the dogs before you are out of the village."
"French","Don't shut the barn door after the horse is stolen."
"French","Better to stumble once than be always tottering."
"French","Dress slowly when you are in a hurry."
"French","Every one has a fool in his sleeve."
"French","Everyone thinks his own burden heavy."
"French","Everybody must live."
"French","Everybody is wise after the thing has happened."
"French","Every to-morrow brings its bread."
"French","Every one takes his pleasure where he finds it."
"French","Every one takes his flogging in his own way."
"French","Every one should sweep before his own door."
"French","Every one says: My right is good."
"French","Empty rooms make giddy housewives."
"French","Every one his own, is but fair."
"French","Don't rock the boat."
"French","Every one feels his own burden heavy."
"French","Every one bears his cross."
"French","Every man to his taste."
"French","Every man has his value."
"French","Every hooked beak is maintained by prey."
"French","Every fool likes his bauble."
"French","Every elm has its man."
"French","Every dog is valiant in his own kennel."
"French","Every art requires the whole person."
"French","Every one preaches for his own saint."
"French","By dint of going wrong all will come right."
"French","Don't show your teeth if you can't bite."
"French","Christmas has been talked of so long that it has come at last."
"French","Children are what they are made."
"French","Children and fools have merry lives."
"French","Children and fools are prophets."
"French","Cherries are bitter to the glutted blackbird."
"French","Caesar's wife must be above suspicion."
"French","Cabbage for cabbage."
"French","Communities begin by building their kitchen."
"French","By working in the smithy one becomes a smith."
"French","Company in distress makes trouble less."
"French","By candle-light a goat looks like a lady."
"French","By biting and scratching cats and dogs come together."
"French","By beating love decays."
"French","But may not truth in laughing guise be dressed?"
"French","But for all that the honest man has not got his purse."
"French","Borrows must not be choosers."
"French","Beware of a reconciled enemy."
"French","Between the hand and the mouth the soup is often spilt."
"French","Between promising and giving a man should marry his daughter."
"French","By writing we learn to write."
"French","Desperate ills require desperate remedies."
"French","Don't rely on the label of the bag."
"French","Don't make an oven of your cap or a garden of your belly."
"French","Don't find fault with what you don't understand."
"French","Do you wish people to think well of you? Don't speak."
"French","Do you want better bread than wheaten?"
"French","Do not strip before bedtime."
"French","Do not make two devils of one."
"French","Do not lend your money to a great man."
"French","Civility costs nothing."
"French","Desperate maladies require desperate remedies."
"French","A woman laughs when she can, and weeps when she pleases."
"French","Death takes the poor man's cow and the rich man's child."
"French","Dearness gluts."
"French","Courting and wooing brings dallying and doing."
"French","Courtesy that is all on one side cannot last long."
"French","Courage is often caused by fear."
"French","Counted sheep are eaten by the wolf."
"French","Could a man foresee events he would never be poor."
"French","Contrivance is better than force."
"French","Comparison is not proof."
"French","Diamond cut diamond."
"French","A full belly counsels well."
"French","A fool's head never whitens."
"French","A good advice is as good as an eye in the hand."
"French","A glaring sunny morning, a woman that talks Latin, and a child reared on wine, never come to a good end."
"French","A girl unemployed is thinking of mischief."
"French","A gilt bridle for an old mule."
"French","A giant among the pigmies."
"French","A gaunt brute bites sore."
"French","A galled horse will not endure the comb."
"French","A good bone does not always come to a good dog."
"French","A full belly sets a man jigging."
"French","A good cause needs help."
"French","A friend's meat is soon ready."
"French","A friend to my table and wine, is no good neighbour."
"French","A friend is known in time of need."
"French","A foolish woman is known by her finery."
"French","A foolish judge passes brief sentence."
"French","A fool's voice is known by a multitude of words."
"French","A fool's tongue is long enough to cut his own throat."
"French","A fool's speech is a bubble of air."
"French","A handful of good life is better than seven barrels of learning."
"French","A galled horse does not care to be curried."
"French","A good man is a man of goods."
"French","A woman who looks much in the glass spins but little."
"French","A great talker is a great liar."
"French","A great fortune in the hands of a fool is a great misfortune."
"French","A great estate is not gotten in a few hours."
"French","A good tale is none the worse for being twice told."
"French","A good swordsman is never quarrelsome."
"French","A good swimmer is not safe against drowning."
"French","A good repast ought to begin with hunger."
"French","A good beast heats with eating."
"French","A good meal ought to begin with hunger."
"French","A fool is always beginning."
"French","A good head does not want for hats."
"French","A good hater,a good lover."
"French","A good gaper makes two gapers."
"French","A good fox does not eat his neighbour's fowls."
"French","A good example is the best sermon."
"French","A good driver turns in a small space."
"French","A good dog never gets a good bone."
"French","A good dog never barks at fault."
"French","A good dog hunts by instinct."
"French","A good name is better than a girdle of gold."
"French","A cake eaten in peace, is worth two in trouble."
"French","A fool's heart dances on his lips."
"French","A covetous woman deserves a swindling gallant."
"French","A courtier should be without feeling and without honour."
"French","A colt you may break, but an old horse you never can."
"French","A colt is good for nothing if it does not break its halter."
"French","A clown enriched knows neither relation nor friend."
"French","A clear conscience is a good pillow."
"French","A civil question deserves a civil answer."
"French","A cow from afar gives plenty of milk."
"French","A churl never liked a gentleman."
"French","A coward often deals a mortal blow to the brave."
"French","A cake and a bad custom ought to be broken."
"French","A brain is worth little without a tongue."
"French","A blind hen can sometimes find her corn."
"French","A big nose never spoiled a handsome face."
"French","A bellyfull of gluttony will never study willingly."
"French","A bellyful is a bellyful."
"French","A beggar is never out of his road."
"French","A bad workman never finds a good tool."
"French","A bad compromise is better than a good lawsuit."
"French","A civil denial is better than a rude grant."
"French","A drowning man clings to a blade of grass."
"French","A fine quotation is a diamond on the finger of a man of wit, and a pebble in the hand of a fool."
"French","A fine girl and a tattered gown always find something to hook the them."
"French","A fine cage won't feed the bird."
"French","A fence between makes love more keen."
"French","A favour ill placed is great waste."
"French","A fault once denied, is twice committed."
"French","A fault denied is twice committed."
"French","A father is a banker provided by nature."
"French","A cow does not know what her tail is worth until she has lost it."
"French","A drowning man will catch at a straw."
"French","A handsome shoe often pinches the feet."
"French","A door must either be open or shut."
"French","A dog may look at a bishop."
"French","A dealer in onions is a good judge of scallions."
"French","A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple."
"French","A dead mouse feels no cold."
"French","A dead man has neither relations nor friends."
"French","A crooked stick will have a crooked shadow."
"French","A crooked log makes a good fire."
"French","A coward's fear may make a coward valiant."
"French","A drowning man will clutch at a straw."
"French","A peg for every hole."
"French","A man who wants bread is ready for anything."
"French","A short sword for a brave man."
"French","A short mass and a long dinner."
"French","A sack is best tied before it is full."
"French","A Rowland for an Oliver."
"French","A rich man is never ugly in the eyes of a girl."
"French","A restive morsel needs a spur of wine."
"French","A pleasant companion on a journey is as good as a postchaise."
"French","A sin concealed is half pardoned (meaning when care is taken to conceal the scandal)."
"French","A person is unlucky who falls on his back and breaks his nose."
"French","A sow is always dreaming of bran."
"French","A noble prince or king never has a coin to bless himself."
"French","A muffled cat never caught a mouse."
"French","A Montgomery division: all on one side, nothing on the other."
"French","A mistake is no reckoning."
"French","A miserly father makes a prodigal man."
"French","A merry life forgets father and mother."
"French","A mansion pulled down is half built up again."
"French","A man with a watch knows what time it is. A man with two watches is never sure."
"French","A guest and a fish after three days are poison."
"French","A pig's life, short and sweet."
"French","A Sunday's child never dies of the plague."
"French","A woman conceals only what she does not know."
"French","A woman and a ship ever want mending."
"French","A woman and a melon are hard to choose."
"French","A wise man may learn of a fool."
"French","A wicked man's gift hath a touch of his master."
"French","A wicked dog must be tied short."
"French","A vicious dog must be tied short."
"French","A thorn comes into the world point foremost."
"French","A silver hammer breaks an iron door."
"French","A table friend is changeable."
"French","A man who is his own lawyer has a fool for a client."
"French","A stitch in time saves nine."
"French","A stingy man is always poor."
"French","A stick is a peacemaker."
"French","A sparrow in the hand is better than a pigeon on the wing."
"French","A sparrow in the hand is better than a crane on the wing."
"French","A sparrow in hand is worth more than a vulture flying."
"French","A sparrow in hand is worth a pheasant that flieth by."
"French","A spark may raise An awful blaze."
"French","A spaniel, a wife, and a walnut tree, The more you beat 'em the better they be."
"French","A thing too much seen is little prized."
"French","Lawyers' houses are built on the heads of fools."
"French","A man who wants to drown his dog says he is mad."
"French","A little gall spoils a great deal of honey."
"French","A little absence does much good."
"French","A litigious man, a liar."
"French","A landmark is very well placed between the fields of two brothers."
"French","A lame man won't walk with one who is lamer."
"French","A kick from a mare never hurt a horse."
"French","A jackfish does more than a letter of recommendation."
"French","A little leaven leavens a great mass."
"French","A hungry dog will eat dirty pudding."
"French","A little man fells a great oak."
"French","A hungry clown is half mad."
"French","He that hunts two hares will catch neither."
"French","A hundred years is not much, but never is a long while."
"French","A hundred years a banner, a hundred years a barrow. [Signifying the changeful fortunes of great feudal families.]"
"French","A house ready made and a wife to make."
"French","A hook's well lost to catch a salmon."
"French","A honeyed tongue with a heart of gall."
"French","A healthy man is a successful man."
"French","A hawk's marriage: the hen is the better bird."
"French","A hungry horse maketh a clean manger."
"French","A man at five may be a fool at fifteen."
"French","A man well mounted is always proud."
"French","A man travels as far in a day as a snail in a hundred years."
"French","A man takes his own wherever he finds it."
"French","A man of straw is worth a woman of gold."
"French","A man may threaten yet be afraid."
"French","A man may cause his own dog to bite him."
"French","A man may bear till his back breaks."
"French","A man know's no more to any purpose than he practises."
"French","A little help does a great deal."
"French","A man at sixteen will prove a child at sixty."
"French","A hungry dog is not afraid of a cudgelling."
"French","A man assailed is half overcome."
"French","A mad dog cannot live long."
"French","A lord of straw devours a vassal of steel."
"French","A little thing often helps."
"French","A little spark shines in the dark."
"French","A little sheep always seems young."
"French","A little rain stills a great wind."
"French","A little pack serves a little pedlar."
"French","A little man sometimes casts a long shadow."
"French","A man is valued according to his own estimate of himself."
"French","He who stops at every stone never gets to his journey's end."
"French","He who pays is fairly entitled to speak his mind."
"French","He who wishes to live at Rome must not quarrel with the pope."
"French","He who wants to travel far takes care of his beast."
"French","He who wants to be rich in a year is hanged at six months' end."
"French","He who waits for another man's trencher often dines in imagination (or with Duke Humphrey)."
"French","He who waits for a dead man's shoes is in danger of going barefoot."
"French","He who turns aside avoids danger."
"French","He who trusts a woman and leads an ass will never be free from plague."
"French","He will not lose his oats for want of braying."
"French","He who threatens is afraid."
"French","He will not lost the parings of his nails."
"French","He who sows virtue reaps fame."
"French","He who sows thistles reaps thorns."
"French","He who sees leather cut asks for a thong."
"French","He who rides the mule shoes her."
"French","He who rides on the giant's shoulders sees further than he who carries him."
"French","He who recovers but the tail of his cow does not lose all."
"French","He who quits his place loses it."
"French","He who pays well is well served."
"French","I sing the song of the person whose bread I eat."
"French","He who torments others does not sleep well."
"French","Honest poverty is thinly sown."
"French","He was born on a Sunday, he likes work ready done."
"French","I never saw a silent rich man."
"French","I know on which side my bread is buttered."
"French","I know by my own pot how the others boil."
"French","Hunger looks in at the industrious man's door but dares not enter."
"French","Hot sup, hot swallow."
"French","Horses run after benefices and asses get them."
"French","Horses for courses."
"French","He who wishes to make a golden door drives a nail into it every day."
"French","Honey is not for asses."
"French","He who passes a winter's day passes one of his mortal enemies."
"French","His like Jean de Nivelle's dog, that runs away when he is called."
"French","His horse's head is too big, it cannot get out of the stable."
"French","Help you to salt, help you to sorrow."
"French","Help thyself and heaven will help thee."
"French","He, who more than he is worth doth spend, E'en makes a rope, his life to end."
"French","He, who kennels with wolves, must howl."
"French","He's a fool that's fond."
"French","He'll swear through an inch board."
"French","He'll laugh well that laughs longest."
"French","Honour blossoms on the grave."
"French","He who carries one burden will soon carry a hundred."
"French","He who pays the piper calls the tune."
"French","He who fears to suffer, suffers from fear."
"French","He who eats of the king's goose will void a feather forty years after."
"French","He who does nothing does ill."
"French","He who does not tire, tires adversity."
"French","He who does not gain loses."
"French","He who does not bait his hook fishes in vain."
"French","He who dispraises a thing, wants to buy it."
"French","He who goes abroad by day has no need of a lantern."
"French","He who chooses takes the worst."
"French","He who goes everywhere gains everywhere."
"French","He who carries nothing loses nothing."
"French","He who cannot speak well of his trade does not understand it."
"French","He who can lick can bite."
"French","He who can give has many a good neighbour."
"French","He who bestirs himself sucks up, he who lies still dries up."
"French","He who begins and does not finish loses his labour."
"French","He wears the mourning of his washerwoman."
"French","He was slain that had warning, not he that took it."
"French","He was born with a caul."
"French","He who comes from afar may lie without fear of contradiction as he is sure to be listened to with the utmost attention."
"French","He who hold the thread holds the ball."
"French","He who never budges from Paris will never be pope."
"French","He who marries for love has good nights and bad days."
"French","He who loses his temper is in the wrong."
"French","He who lives long knows what pain is."
"French","He who listens at doors hears more than he desires."
"French","He who judges between two friends loses one of them."
"French","He who is born to be hanged shall never be drowned."
"French","He who is at sea does not direct the winds."
"French","He who gets out of debt enriches himself."
"French","He who holds the handle of the frying-pan turns it as he pleases."
"French","If a man would learn to pray let him go often to sea."
"French","He who has nothing fears nothing."
"French","He who has not health has nothing."
"French","He who has money has capers."
"French","He who has his purse full preaches to the poor man."
"French","He who has drunk will drink."
"French","He who has daughters is always a shepherd."
"French","He who has a companion has a master."
"French","He who grasps too much holds not firmly."
"French","He who goes to collect wool may come back shorn."
"French","He who is anxious for the death of another has a long rope to pull."
"French","It is not enough to run; one must start in time."
"French","It is folly to gape against an oven."
"French","It is pleasant enough going afoot when you lead your horse by the bridle."
"French","It is only the bashful that lose."
"French","It is only idle people who can find time for everything."
"French","It is only good bargains that ruin."
"French","It is only at the tree loaded with fruit that people throw stones."
"French","It is nothing at all, only a woman drowning."
"French","It is not the greatest beauties that inspire the most profound passion."
"French","It is the old cow's notion that she never was a calf."
"French","It is not the big oxen that do the best day's work."
"French","It is the pace that kills."
"French","It is not enough to have cabbage, one must have something to grease it."
"French","It is merry in hall when beards wag all."
"French","It is madness for a sheep to talk of peace with a wolf."
"French","It is loving too much to die of love."
"French","It is just that the priest should live by the altar."
"French","It is in vain to lean the ox to the water if he is not thirsty."
"French","It is in vain for a man to rise early who has the repute of lying in bed all the morning."
"French","It is good to have friends in all parts."
"French","I never saw an oft-removed tree, Nor yet an oft-removed family, That throve so well as one that settled be."
"French","It is not the burden but the over-burden that kills the beast."
"French","Jealousy is nourished by doubt."
"French","A hundred years of fretting will not pay a halfpenny of debt."
"French","Everything goes by favour and cousinship."
"French","Lawyers' houses are built of fools' heads."
"French","Laws have wax noses."
"French","Kings have long hands."
"French","Kindred without friends, friends without power, power without will, will without effect, effect without profit, profit without virtue, is not worth a rush."
"French","Keep a stiff upper lip."
"French","Justifying a fault doubles it."
"French","It is the master-wheel that makes the mill go round."
"French","Jest not with the eye, or religion."
"French","It is easier to get away from the back than the bottom."
"French","It would be a very big book that contained all the maybes uttered in a day."
"French","It won't do to trifle with fire."
"French","It will not out of the flesh that is bred in the bone."
"French","It will not do to keep holidays before they come."
"French","It is well to leave off playing when the game is at its best."
"French","It is well to fly low on account of the branches."
"French","It is too late for the bird to scream when it is caught."
"French","It is the tone that makes the music."
"French","It is the sauce that makes the fish edible."
"French","John has been to school to learn to be a fool."
"French","If you would understand men, study women."
"French","It is good to beat a proud man when he is alone."
"French","In marriage cheat who can."
"French","In hawks, hounds, arms, and love, for one pleasure a thousand pains."
"French","In calm water every ship has a good captain."
"French","In borrowing an angel, in repaying a devil."
"French","Ill-luck is good for something."
"French","If youth but had the knowledge and old age the strength."
"French","If your head is made of butter, don't be a baker."
"French","In the end things will mend."
"French","If you wrestle with a collier you will get a blotch."
"French","In the fiddler's house every one is a dancer."
"French","If you have a sore eye wipe it with your elbow."
"French","If you cannot say it, point to it with your finger."
"French","If wishes would bide, beggars would ride."
"French","If wishes were true, shepherds would be kings."
"French","If we pay for the music we will join in the dance."
"French","If the weather is fine, put on you cloak; if it rains, do as you please."
"French","If the sky were to fall we should catch plenty of larks."
"French","If it only depends on swearing, the cow is ours."
"French","If it can lick, it can bite."
"French","If you're born to be hanged then you'll never be drowned."
"French","It is a good horse that never stumbles."
"French","It is easier to abstain than to restrain."
"French","It is better to leave the child's nose dirty than wring it off."
"French","It is better to have to do with God than with his saints."
"French","It is better to bend than break."
"French","It is better to be the first on one's race than the last (meanest)."
"French","It is at home, not in public, that one washes his dirty linen."
"French","It is always well to keep hold of your horse's bridle."
"French","It is all one whether you are bit a dog or a bitch."
"French","In the end it will be known who ate the bacon."
"French","It is a sorry house in which the cock is silent and the hen crows."
"French","He who looks not before finds himself behind."
"French","Iron may be rubbed so long that it gets heated."
"French","Ingratitude is the mother of every vice."
"French","Indecision is the key to flexibility."
"French","Incense intoxicates and every one wishes for it."
"French","In youth, one has tears without grief; in age, grief without tears."
"French","In too much disputing truth is lost."
"French","In the tail lies the venom."
"French","In the kingdom of the blind men, those who are blessed with one eye are kings."
"French","In the forehead and the eye The lecture of the mind doth lie."
"French","It is a stupid goose that listens to the fox preach."
"French","God save me from those I trust in."
"French","Hang a thief when he's young, and he'll not steal when he's old."
"French","Good comes to better, and better to bad."
"French","Good blood will never lie."
"French","Good bargains are ruinous."
"French","Good advice is as good as an eye in the hand."
"French","Golden bishop, wooden crosier; wooden bishop, golden crosier."
"French","God's work is soon done."
"French","God visits us, but most of the time we are not at home."
"French","Good morrow spectacles, farewell lasses."
"French","God save you from a man who has but one business."
"French","Good repute is better than a golden belt."
"French","God puts a good root in the little pig's way."
"French","God made hands before knives."
"French","God knows who is a good pilgrim."
"French","God is on the side of the strongest battalions."
"French","God helps three sorts of people: fools, children and drunkards."
"French","He that would keep his house clean must not let priest or pigeon into it."
"French","God and man think him a fool who brags of his of his own great wisdom."
"French","He who loses sins."
"French","Gluttony has killed more than the sword."
"French","God saves the moon from the wolves."
"French","Great boasters, little doers."
"French","Handsomely asked, handsomely refused."
"French","Half the truth is often a whole lie."
"French","Half figs, half raisins."
"French","Greater qualities are needed to bear good fortune than bad."
"French","Great wits meet."
"French","Great thieves always have their sleeves full of gags."
"French","Great talkers, little doers."
"French","Great talkers are not great doers."
"French","Good land should not be quitted for a bad landlord."
"French","Great disputing repels truth."
"French","Give me the rhubarb and you may take the senna."
"French","Great boaster, little doer."
"French","Grease a churl's boots and he'll say you are burning them."
"French","Gray and green make the worst medley."
"French","Gratitude is the least of virtues, but ingratitude the worst of vices."
"French","Gratitude is the heart's memory."
"French","Good wine needs no vine."
"French","Good wine needs no sign."
"French","Good wine makes the horse go."
"French","Good watching drives away ill-luck."
"French","Great scholars are not the shrewdest men."
"French","Farewell baskets, the vintage is ended."
"French","Flies are easier caught with honey than with vinegar."
"French","Fine feathers make find birds."
"French","Fine birds are commonly plucked."
"French","Fine and fine make but a slender doublet."
"French","Fie upon a cloak in fair weather!"
"French","Feather by feather the goose can be plucked."
"French","Fear is a great inventor."
"French","Fat pastures make fat venison."
"French","Glutton: one who digs his grave with his teeth."
"French","Fashion is a tyrant from which there is no deliverance; all must conform to its whimsical."
"French","Fools go in throngs."
"French","Fair, good, rich, and wise, is a woman four stories high."
"French","Fair without, foul within."
"French","Fair things are soon snatched away."
"French","Fair is he that comes, but fairer he that brings."
"French","Example is the greatest of all seducers."
"French","Everything passes, everything breaks, everything wearies. [Fr., Tout passe, tout casse, tout lasse.]"
"French","Everything may be bought except day and night."
"French","Everything in time comes to him who knows how to wait."
"French","Everything goes to him who does not want it."
"French","Fat broth cannot be made of nothing."
"French","Fortune is a woman; if you neglect her to-day, expect not to regain her to-morrow."
"French","God gives the cold according to the cloth."
"French","Get out of that place and let me take it."
"French","Gentleness does more than violence."
"French","From to-morrow till to-morrow time goes a long journey."
"French","From short pleasure long repentance."
"French","From confessors, doctors, and lawyers, do not conceal the truth of your case."
"French","From bishop to turn miller."
"French","Frae saving comes having."
"French","Foxes come at last to the furrier's."
"French","Flies will not light on a boiling pot."
"French","Foul linen should be washed at home."
"French","Follow the river and you will reach the sea."
"French","Fortune can take from us only what she has given us."
"French","For wolf's flesh dog sauce."
"French","For the last-comer the bones."
"French","For sake of the knight the lady kisses the squire."
"French","For overbuying there's no help but selling again."
"French","For one pleasure a thousand pains."
"French","For a stubborn ass a stubborn driver."
"French","For a stubborn ass a hard goad."
"French","Give out that you have many friends, and believe that you have but few."
"French","Fouls invent fashions and wise men follow them."
"French","He never was a friend who has ceased to be one."
"French","He sups ill who eats up all at dinner."
"French","He slumbers enough who does nothing."
"French","He sleeps securely who has nothing to lose."
"French","He sins as much who holds the bag as he who puts into it."
"French","He ruins himself in promises, and clears himself by giving nothing."
"French","He puts his sickle into another man's harvest."
"French","He pulls at a long rope who desires another's death."
"French","He plays well that wins."
"French","He is the more obstinate for being advised."
"French","He pays dear for honey who licks it off thorns."
"French","He that has not money in his purse should have honey in his mouth."
"French","He never did a good day's work who went grumblingly about it."
"French","He needs say nothing about the score who pays nothing."
"French","He may swim boldly who is held up by the chin."
"French","He looks one way and rows another."
"French","He looks for his ass and sits on its back."
"French","He lies like a toothdrawer."
"French","He knows enough who knows how to live and keep his own counsel."
"French","He is the wisest man who does not think himself so."
"French","He pays for the glasses who breaks them."
"French","He that spends more than he is worth spins a rope for his own neck."
"French","He that would hang his dog, gives out first, that he is mad."
"French","He that would go to sea for pleasure would go to hell for a pastime."
"French","God alone understands fools."
"French","He that walks too hastily, often stumbles in plain way."
"French","Happy is the man who has a handsome wife close to an abbey."
"French","He that that hath a head of wax must not approach the fire."
"French","He that telleth his wife news is but lately married."
"French","He that takes too great a leap falls into the ditch."
"French","He that corrects not youth, controls not age."
"French","He that stays in the valley will not get over the hill."
"French","He that does not ask will never get a bargain."
"French","He that lets his fish escape, may cast his net often yet never catch it again."
"French","He that leaves certainty and sticks to chance, When fools pipe he may dance."
"French","He that laughs on Friday may cry on Sunday."
"French","He that is too much in haste, may stumble on a good road."
"French","He that is thrown would still wrestle."
"French","He that is ashamed to eat is ashamed to live."
"French","He that holds the handle of a frying-pan runs the risk of burning himself."
"French","He that hath a wife is sure of strife."
"French","He that ventures not fails not."
"French","He that stumbles and falls not, mends his pace."
"French","He does not guard himself well who is not always on his guard."
"French","He has enough who is content."
"French","He has enough to do who holds the handle of a frying-pan."
"French","He has eaten his corn in the blade."
"French","He has a good pledge of the cat who has her skin."
"French","He had need rise early who would please everybody."
"French","He goes safely who has nothing."
"French","He gains enough who loses sorrow."
"French","He forgot nothing except to say farewell."
"French","He has great need of a fool who makes himself one."
"French","He falls on his back and breaks his nose."
"French","He fishes on who catches one."
"French","He does a good day's work who rids himself of a fool."
"French","He carries fire in one hand, water in the other."
"French","He carries fire and water."
"French","He cannot be a friend to any one who is his own enemy."
"French","He beat the bushes and another caught the birds."
"French","He asks advice in vain who will not follow it."
"French","Hatred watches while friendship sleeps."
"French","He is the devil's valet, he does more that he is ordered."
"French","He that would eat the kernel must crack the nut."
"French","He flays enough who holds the foot."
"French","He is rich who is satisfied."
"French","He has not done who is beginning."
"French","Happy the child whose father goes to the devil."
"French","He is rich enough who owes nothing."
"French","Hasten leisurely."
"French","He is past preaching to who does not care to do well."
"French","He is not so much of a devil as he is black."
"French","He is not escaped who drags his chain."
"French","He is like the gardener's dog, who don't eat cabbage and will let no one else eat them."
"French","He is like a singed cat, better than he looks."
"French","He expects that larks will fall ready roasted into his mouth."
"French","He is like a silver pin, Fair without, but foul within."
"French","He is like a cat, he always falls on his feet."
"French","He is called clever who cheats and plunders his friend."
"French","He is a very bad manager of honey who leaves nothing to lick off his fingers."
"French","He is a thief indeed who robs a thief."
"French","He is a horse with four white feet (i.e., he is unlucky)."
"French","He is a great fool who forgets himself."
"French","He is a fool who makes his physician his heir."
"French","He is a fool who makes a mallet of his fist."
"French","He has nothing who has not enough."
"French","He is rich that is satisfied."
"French Foreign Legion","When in doubt, Gallop."
"French Foreign Legion","When in Rome, do as the Romans do."
"French Foreign Legion","When in doubt, Gallop!"
"French Foreign Legion","When in Rome, do as the Romans do."
"French Sundial Motto","L'amour faite passer les temps. Les temps faite passer l'amour. (Love makes time pass. Time makes love pass.)"
"French, German","No names, no pack-drill."
"French, German","Three removals are as bad as a fire."
"French, German","The nearer the church the farther from God."
"French, German","The monk responds as the abbot chants."
"French, German","The higher the ape climbs the more he shows his rump."
"French, German","So many mists in March, so many frosts in May."
"French, German","So many men, so many minds."
"French, German","No more teachers, no more books, no more teacher's dirty looks."
"French, German","No moon, no man."
"French, German","No money no Swiss."
"French, German","Never seemed prison fair, or mistress foul."
"French, German","Let him that itches scratch himself."
"French, German","He who spares vice wrongs virtue."
"French, German","Bring up a raven, and he will peck out your eyes."
"French, German","Big head, little wit."
"French, German","A fat kitchen makes a lean will."
"French, German","So many men, so many opinions."
"French, German, Italian","What the eye sees not the heart rues not."
"French, German, Italian","One nail drives out another."
"French, German, Italian","The person who has no opinion will seldom be wrong."
"French, German, Italian","The people's voice, God's voice."
"French, German, Italian","Necessity has no law."
"French, German, Italian","All the keys do not hang at one girdle."
"French, German, Italian","One may buy gold too dear."
"French, German, Italian","Make yourself a sheep and the wolf will eat you."
"French, German, Italian, Portuguese","Better bend than break."
"French, German, Italian, Spanish","Never speak of a rope in the house of one who was hanged."
"French, German, Spanish","Store is no sore."
"French, Italian","The mortar always smells of garlic."
"French, Italian","He that runs fast will not run long."
"French, Italian","No grass grows on a beaten road."
"French, Italian","No one ever saw a goat dead of hunger."
"French, Italian","No one is bound to do impossibilities."
"French, Italian","On a fool's beard the barber learns to shave."
"French, Italian","One flower does not make a garland."
"French, Italian","Praise the sea, and keep on land."
"French, Italian","Ravens do not peck out raven's eyes."
"French, Italian","He that rewards flattery, begs it."
"French, Italian","The first blow is as good as two."
"French, Italian","Long tongue, short hand."
"French, Italian","There is no love without jealousy."
"French, Italian","War makes robbers, and peace hangs them."
"French, Italian","Who loves well chastises well."
"French, Italian","Who sows thorns should not go barefoot."
"French, Italian","With time and straw medlars ripen."
"French, Italian","Wolves do not eat each other."
"French, Italian","That is done soon enough which is well done."
"French, Italian","A tender-hearted mother makes a scabby daughter."
"French, Italian","A goaded ass must trot."
"French, Italian","No news is good news."
"French, Italian","A sack was never so full but that it would hold another grain."
"French, Italian","He that repairs not a part, builds all."
"French, Italian","A white wall is the fool's paper."
"French, Italian","An old dog does not bark for nothing."
"French, Italian","Beauty and folly are often companions."
"French, Italian","Do what you ought, come what may."
"French, Italian","Drop by drop wears away the stone."
"French, Italian","Every monkey will have his gambols."
"French, Italian","Every one draws the water to his own mill."
"French, Italian","For a web begun God sends thread."
"French, Italian","Good swimmers are drowned at last."
"French, Italian","He is rich who owes nothing."
"French, Italian","He knocks boldly at the door who brings good news."
"French, Italian","He that reckons without his host must reckon again."
"French, Italian","He that refuseth praise the first time does it because he would have it the second."
"French, Italian","Every medal has its reverse."
"French, Italian","A man warned is as good as two."
"French, Italian, Portuguese","After shaving there is nothing to shear."
"French, Italian, Portuguese","No flies get into a shut mouth."
"French, Italian, Portuguese","Marry your son when you please, your daughter when you can."
"French, Italian, Portuguese","Love and lordship like no fellowship."
"French, Italian, Portuguese","Everything must have a beginning."
"French, Italian, Portuguese","Hear, see, and say nothing if you would live in peace."
"French, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish","Every one knows best where the shoe pinches him."
"French, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish","The sheep that bleats loses a mouthful."
"French, Italian, Spanish","Who knows most says least."
"French, Italian, Spanish","An old ox makes a straight furrow."
"French, Italian, Spanish","The tongue goes to where the tooth aches."
"French, Italian, Spanish","The higher the rise the greater the fall."
"French, Italian, Spanish","The highest branch is not the safest roost."
"French, Italian, Spanish","He gives twice who gives in a trice."
"French, Italian, Spanish","Harm watch, harm catch."
"French, Italian, Spanish","An old poacher makes the best gamekeeper."
"French, Italian, Spanish","Nothing venture, nothing have."
"French, Italian, Spanish","God helps him who helps himself."
"French, Portuguese","A scalded cat dreads cold water."
"French, Portuguese","A scalded cat fears cold water."
"French, Portuguese","A word to the wise."
"French, Portuguese","Fair and softly goes far."
"French, Portuguese","Fair feathers make fair fowls."
"French, Portuguese","Fair flowers do not remain long by the wayside."
"French, Portuguese","Man is fire, woman is tow, and the devil comes and blows."
"French, Portuguese, Spanish","A handsome hostess is bad for the purse."
"French, Portuguese, Spanish","The mill does not grind with water that is past."
"French, Portuguese, Spanish","Nothing falls into the mouth of a sleeping fox."
"French, Portuguese, Spanish","The better day the better deed."
"French, quoted by Lord Chesterfield","The game is not worth the candle. [Fr., Le jeu ne vaut pas la chandelle.]"
"French, Romanian","When a thing is done, advice comes too late."
"French, Spanish","Repentance costs dear."
"French, Spanish","He who lies down with dogs gets up with fleas."
"French, Spanish","Wine wears no mask."
"French, Spanish","Wine wears no breeches."
"French, Spanish","When the devil finds the door shut he goes away."
"French, Spanish","What the she-wolf does (or brings forth) pleases the he-wolf."
"French, Spanish","What a woman wills God wills."
"French, Spanish","There is a remedy for everything except death."
"French, Spanish","There is a remedy for everything but death."
"French, Spanish","Manual jokes are clown's jokes."
"French, Spanish","He who eats the king's cow lean, pays for it fat."
"French, Spanish","Forewarned is forearmed."
"French, Spanish","Every road leads to Rome."
"French, Spanish","Absent, none without blame; present, none without excuse."
"French, Spanish","A good lawyer is a bad neighbour."
"French, Spanish","Old reckonings breed new disputes."
"French, Spanish","Need makes the old woman trot."
"from Fuller's ""Gnomologica""","My son is my son till he have got him a wife, But my daughter's my daughter all the days of her life."
"Fulani","A satisfied person does not know what a hungry one feels."
"Fulani","If you see a man in a gown eating with a man in rags, the food belongs to the latter."
"Fulani","One cannot borrow a man's mouth and eat onions for him."
"Fulani","When an elephant is dead, a hare will not smell."
"Ga","Money is like the waters of a swelling river, it flows away."
"Gaelic","Avoid the evil, and it will avoid thee."
"Gaelic","Modesty is the beauty of women."
"Gaelic","Repentance won't cure mischief."
"Gaelic","Praise the fine day in the evening."
"Gaelic","Peace is the well from which the stream of joy runs."
"Gaelic","Nothing is easy to the unwilling."
"Gaelic","Neither seek nor shun the fight."
"Gaelic","Say but little and say it well."
"Gaelic","Monday is the key day of the week."
"Gaelic","Some people make things happen, some watch things happen, while others wonder what has happened."
"Gaelic","Modesty is the beauty of women."
"Gaelic","Keep a thing seven years and you'll find a use for it."
"Gaelic","It is easy to straighten in the oak the crook that grew in the sapling."
"Gaelic","In the shelter of each other, the people live."
"Gaelic","More than we use is more than we want."
"Gaelic","See that your own hearth is swept before you lift your neighbor's ashes."
"Gaelic","Some of the sweetest berries grow among the sharpest thorns."
"Gaelic","The best mirror is a friend's eye."
"Gaelic","The bitter cup we strive to remove from us holds the medicine we are most in need of."
"Gaelic","The child that is left to himself will put his mother to shame."
"Gaelic","The coroner and the lawyer grow fat on the quarrels of fools."
"Gaelic","The fated thing will happen."
"Gaelic","The lion is known by the scratch of his claws."
"Gaelic","There is no greater fraud than a promise not kept."
"Gaelic","Waves will rise on silent water."
"Gaelic","Who God does not teach, man cannot."
"Gaelic","If the best man's faults were written on his forehead, it would make him pull his hat over his eyes."
"Gaelic","A king's son is no nobler than his company."
"Gaelic","Self-assurance is two-thirds of success."
"Gaelic","A man is known by the eye, and the face discovers wisdom."
"Gaelic","'Tis hard to hold a conger by the tail."
"Gaelic","A bad reaper never gets a good sickle."
"Gaelic","A day's work--getting started."
"Gaelic","A dimple on the chin, the devil within."
"Gaelic","A friend by thee is better than a brother far off."
"Gaelic","A gossip's mouth is the devil's postbag."
"Gaelic","A man is known by the company he keeps."
"Gaelic","If it is worth taking, it is worth asking for."
"Gaelic","A wild goose never laid a tame egg."
"Gaelic","As thou valuest yourself, others will esteem thee."
"Gaelic","Assurance is two-thirds of success."
"Gaelic","Avoid the evil, and it will avoid thee."
"Gaelic","Carelessness is worse than a thief."
"Gaelic","Evil thoughts often come from idleness."
"Gaelic","A friend's eye is a good mirror."
"Gaelic","Choose your company before you choose your drink."
"Gaelic","He who lies in the mud will rise dirty."
"Gaelic","He that will not look forward must look behind."
"Gaelic","He that promises most will perform least."
"Gaelic","Every day good luck to thee, and no day of sorrow be."
"Gaelic","He who would enjoy the fruit must not spoil the blossoms."
"Gaelic","Even God cannot make two mountains without a valley in between."
"Gaelic","Don't give cherries to pigs or advice to fools."
"Gaelic","Do not look to the peaceful man for cudgels."
"Gaelic","Do not light a fire that you cannot yourself put out."
"Gaelic","Do not judge by appearances; a rich heart may be under a poor coat."
"Gaelic","Common sense hides shame."
"Gaelic","Waves will rise on silent water."
"Gaelic","Neither seek nor shun the fight."
"Gaelic","Peace is the well from which the stream of joy runs."
"Gaelic","Praise the fine day in the evening."
"Gaelic","Say but little and say it well."
"Gaelic","See that your own hearth is swept before you lift your neighbor's ashes."
"Gaelic","Some of the sweetest berries grow among the sharpest thorns."
"Gaelic","Some people make things happen, some watch things happen, while others wonder what has happened."
"Gaelic","The bitter cup we strive to remove from us holds the medicine we are most in need of."
"Gaelic","The lion is known by the scratch of his claws."
"Gaelic","'Tis hard to hold a conger by the tail."
"Gaelic","If it is worth taking, it is worth asking for."
"Gaelic","The coroner and the lawyer grow fat on the quarrels of fools."
"Gaelic","A man is known by the company he keeps."
"Gaelic","A day's work--getting started."
"Gaelic","A bad reaper never gets a good sickle."
"Gaelic","A gossip's mouth is the devil's postbag."
"Gaelic","He who would enjoy the fruit must not spoil the blossoms."
"Gaelic","A man is known by the eye, and the face discovers wisdom."
"Gaelic","Avoid the evil, and it will avoid thee."
"Gaelic","Choose your company before you choose your drink."
"Gaelic","Do not judge by appearances; a rich heart may be under a poor coat."
"Gaelic","Do not light a fire that you cannot yourself put out."
"Gaelic","Evil thoughts often come from idleness."
"Gaelic","He that will not look forward must look behind."
"Gaelic","A friend by thee is better than a brother far off."
"Galician","A church stone drops gold."
"Galician","The cow that does not eat with the oxen, either eats before or after them."
"Galician","The hen's eyes are where her eggs are."
"Galician","The fox goes through the corn and does not eat, but brushes it down with his tail."
"Galician","The devil is fond of his own."
"Galician","You a lady, I a lady, who is to put the sow out of doors?"
"Galician","The bad neighbour gives a needle without thread."
"Galician","I see by my mother-in-law's eyes when the devil takes hold of her."
"Galician","He who plays with a sword plays with the devil."
"Galician","He that is won with a nut, may be lost with an apple."
"Galician","Friends and mules fail in hard trials."
"Galician","He that is unkind to his own will not be kind to others."
"Galician","I see by my mother-in-law's eyes when the devil takes hold of her."
"Galician","The hen's eyes are where her eggs are."
"Galician","The fox goes through the corn and does not eat, but brushes it down with his tail."
"Galician","The devil is fond of his own."
"Galician","The cow that does not eat with the oxen, either eats before or after them."
"Galician","He who plays with a sword plays with the devil."
"Galician","He that is won with a nut, may be lost with an apple."
"Galician","Friends and mules fail in hard trials."
"Galician","A church stone drops gold."
"Galician","He that is unkind to his own will not be kind to others."
"Galla","Teeth are all friends among each other."
"Galla","What has been blown away, cannot be found again."
"Galla","What one hopes for is always better than what one has."
"Galla","The fool is thirsty in the midst of water."
"Galla","Even over cold pudding, the coward says ~'It will burn my mouth."
"Galla","As the wound inflames the finger, so thought inflames the mind."
"Galla","It is strange! The ox eats hay and the dog eats bread, while the donkey carries wine but drinks water."
"Galla","A single stick may smoke, but it will not burn."
"Gambia","Giant silk cotton trees grow out of very tiny seeds."
"Gambia","No matter how long a log may float in the water, it will never become a crocodile."
"Gambia","If a donkey kicks you and you kick back, you are both donkeys."
"Gambia","However black a cow is, the milk is always white."
"Gambia","Before healing others, heal yourself."
"Gambia","An adult squatting sees farther than a child on top of tree."
"Gambia","A fly that has no one to advice it, follows the corpse into the grave."
"Gambia","If a child's hands are clean, he can eat with elders."
"Gambian","Before healing others, heal yourself."
"Gambian","Before healing others, heal yourself."
"Ganda","Parents give birth to the body of their children, but not always to their characters."
"Ganda","What ripens quickly, rots quickly."
"Ganda","What is decided by legitimate authority is not resented by the subjects."
"Ganda","The grass torch that burns a bad house, also burns a good one."
"Ganda","One who explains things to an intelligent person need not tire herself out talking."
"Ganda","If you laugh at the bowl, you laugh at the potter."
"Ganda","An ugly child of your own is more to you than a beautiful one belonging to your neighbor."
"Ganda","One who says 'it was too much for me' does not try."
"Ganda","The one who loves an unsightly person is the one who makes him beautiful."
"Genoese","It is better to wear out one's shoes than one's sheets."
"Genoese","Light is half a companion."
"Genoese","Light is half a companion."
"Georgian","The eyeless ant asked God: Give me eye-lashes."
"Georgian","The right balance depends on the weigher."
"Georgian","The rich eat when they want, the poor when they can."
"Georgian","The person in a hurry usually arrives late."
"Georgian","The mother said ""I will die"", the wife said ""I will marry"", and in the meantime the house is full of dirt."
"Georgian","The lucky fellow loses his wife, the unlucky fellow loses his horse."
"Georgian","The fox which was caught in a snare called: If I shall not get the whole chicken, I will not be satisfied with the drumstick."
"Georgian","The eyeless ant asked God: Give me eye-lashes."
"Georgian","The cat would eat fish, but would not wet her feet."
"Georgian","The dog was asked: Why do you bark? - To scare the wolves. - Why do you wag your tail? -What do you think, am I not afraid of wolves?"
"Georgian","The rooster said, ""I shall cry but whether the sun rises God knows."""
"Georgian","The eyeless ant asked God: Give me eye-lashes."
"Georgian","The smile of a rose uplifts the nightingale."
"Georgian","The wolf told the dog: It does not matter that I run and you follow me, what matters is that when I turn around you will be next to me."
"Georgian","Thousands of men were murdered because of their beautiful wives."
"Georgian","Whatever the wind brings he takes away with him."
"Georgian","When they came to milk the cow she said ""I am an ox"", and when they came to harness her she said ""I am a cow""."
"Georgian","When three people say you are drunk, go to sleep."
"Georgian","When you put your nose into the water your cheeks get wet as well."
"Georgian","Whoever I love is the most beautiful."
"Georgian","You cackle in our place but you lay your eggs at someone else's place."
"Georgian","You can better drink from a small well with soft water than from the salty sea."
"Georgian","You can conquer the whole world with words, but not with drawn swords."
"Georgian","The cat which did not reach the sausage said: Anyhow it is Friday."
"Georgian","The tall one wouldn't bend; the short one wouldn't stretch and the kiss was lost."
"Georgian","You can buy 'em but they don't stay bought."
"Georgian","A mother will understand what her dumb son says."
"Georgian","The buzzing of the flies does not turn them into bees."
"Georgian","The world can be conquered with words, but not with drawn swords."
"Georgian","I have a lot to say, said the fish, ""but my mouth is full of water."""
"Georgian","A church without a leader is prey for the devil."
"Georgian","A golden plate is worth nothing to me when my blood is spilled on it."
"Georgian","A Tatar says to a Tatar: Call me Aga and I will call you Aga, and we shall both be Agas."
"Georgian","Better your own copper than another man's gold."
"Georgian","Beware of the front of a bull, the back of a horse and both sides of a blind man."
"Georgian","Blood vessels are not cleaned with blood."
"Georgian","Catch the bird before you build a cage."
"Georgian","Do not blame the sun for the darkness of the night."
"Georgian","Give a blind man eyes and he will ask for eyebrows."
"Georgian","Men prefer the wife of another but love their own sons more."
"Georgian","One dirty pig pollutes others."
"Georgian","A communal field is ruined by the bears."
"Georgian","God is the comfort of the poor."
"Georgian","Only the dumb can silence the chatterer."
"Georgian","Mewing cats catch no mice."
"Georgian","One blind man followed the other and they both fell into the ditch."
"Georgian","In a place without dogs they teach the cats to bark."
"Georgian","If you forgive the fox for stealing your chickens, he will take your sheep."
"Georgian","If women were really good, God would be married."
"Georgian","If the moon helps me I will scoff at the stars."
"Georgian","He who is in a hurry always arrives late."
"Georgian","If you give a man nuts then give him something to crack them with."
"Georgian","God laughs at man's proposal."
"Georgian","The rooster said, ""I shall cry but whether the sun rises God knows."""
"Georgian","You can buy 'em but they don't stay bought."
"Georgian","You cackle in our place but you lay your eggs at someone else's place."
"Georgian","The cat which did not reach the sausage said: Anyhow it is Friday."
"Georgian","The eyeless ant asked God: Give me eye-lashes."
"Georgian","The cat would eat fish, but would not wet her feet."
"German","One does evil enough when one does nothing good."
"German","Old birds are hard to pluck."
"German","God gives the nuts but he does not crack them."
"German","One enemy can harm you more than a hundred friends can do you good."
"German","He that finds fault wants to buy."
"German","Never give advice unless asked."
"German","He who borrows sells his freedom."
"German","The more laws the less justice."
"German","Money leant to a friend must be recovered from an enemy."
"German","The best answer to anger is silence."
"German","He who holds the ladder is as bad as the thief."
"German","A lean agreement is better than a fat lawsuit."
"German","Every lion has to defend himself against flies."
"German","Charity sees the need, not the cause."
"German","Invalids live longest."
"German","He who would rule must hear and be deaf, see and be blind."
"German","When the fox preaches, look to the geese."
"German","To change and change for the better are two different things."
"German","Who is not ashamed doubles his sins."
"German","Where there are no swamps there are no frogs."
"German","Who accepts nothing has nothing to return."
"German","Promises are like the full moon: if they are not kept at once they diminish day by day."
"German","A shroud has no pockets."
"German","Rent and Taxes never sleep."
"German","Revenge does not long remain unrevenged."
"German","A woman without a man is like a garden without a fence."
"German","Whose bread I eat: his song I sing."
"German","The wise man has long ears and a short tongue."
"German","One nail drives out another."
"German","When a dove begins to associate with crows its feathers remain white but its heart grows black."
"German","Lightning never strikes the same place twice."
"German","Little drops of water, little grains of sand, make the mighty ocean and the pleasant land."
"German","Light burdens carried far become heavy."
"German","Light come, light go."
"German","Light is light, though the blind man see it not."
"German","Like master, like man."
"German","Lightly come, lightly go."
"German","Like blood, like means, and like age, make the happiest marriage."
"German","Little and often fills the purse."
"German","Little and often makes a heap in time."
"German","It is not always good to be wise."
"German","Lies melt the snow."
"German","It is not enough to aim, you must hit."
"German","Liberty is God's gift, liberties the devil s."
"German","Liars should have good memories."
"German","Let your trouble tarry till its own day comes."
"German","Let your purse be your master."
"German","Little enemies and little wounds are not to be despised."
"German","Look not out for dead men's shoes."
"German","Let your head be more than a funnel to your stomach."
"German","Let the guest go before the storm bursts."
"German","Lies have short legs."
"German","Look not a gift horse in the mouth."
"German","Love your neighbor, but don't tear down your fence."
"German","Love without return is like a question without an answer."
"German","Love talks, even with closed lips."
"German","Love sees roses without thorns."
"German","Love knows hidden paths."
"German","Love grows with obstacles."
"German","Love cannot be bought or sold, its only price is love."
"German","Love can turn a cottage into a golden palace."
"German","Love can do much, money can do all."
"German","Love begins at home."
"German","Look before you leap, For snakes among sweet flowers do creep."
"German","Lean liberty is better than fat slavery."
"German","Little fishes make the pike big."
"German","Let the devil get into the church, and he will mount the altar."
"German","Long-talked-of comes at last."
"German","Long is not for ever."
"German","Long foretold, long last; short notice, soon past."
"German","Long fasting is no economy of food."
"German","Long choosing and cheapening ends in buying nothing, or bad wares."
"German","Long borrowed is not given."
"German","Locks and keys are not made for honest fingers."
"German","Live and let live."
"German","Little pots soon run over."
"German","Little folks are fond of talking about what great folks do."
"German","Loquacity and lying are cousins."
"German","It's a sin to steal a pin."
"German","Joy and sorrow are to-day and to-morrow."
"German","Joy and sorrow are next door neighbours."
"German","Jealousy is a pain which eagerly seeks what causes pain."
"German","Jealousy is a pain that seeks what caused it."
"German","Jealousy is a pain seeking its cause."
"German","Jacob's voice, Esau's hands."
"German","Jack gets on by his stupidity."
"German","It's the whole, not the detail, that matters."
"German","It's not healthy to swallow books without chewing."
"German","Learned fools exceed all fools."
"German","It's better to have no spoon than to have no soup."
"German","Keep well with your neighbours, whether right or wrong."
"German","It's a poor sheep that cannot carry its own wool."
"German","It's a poor mouse that sits on the sack and doesn't gnaw."
"German","It's a bad bridge that is narrower than the stream."
"German","It usually rains where it's already wet."
"German","It is too much to expect of a cat that she should sit by the milk and not lap it."
"German","It is not want but abundance that makes avarice."
"German","It is not till the cow has lost her tail, that she discovers its value."
"German","It is not good to be the poet of a village."
"German","Love your neighbor, but keep your fence."
"German","Monks, mice, rats, vermin, seldom sunder without harming."
"German","It's hard to scare a person who thinks he will benefit from dying."
"German","Lazy men get active when it's time to sleep."
"German","Let sleeping dogs lie."
"German","Let people take and dogs bark."
"German","Let not thy right hand know what thy left hand doeth."
"German","Let him who is well off hold his tongue."
"German","Let him that itches scratch himself."
"German","Let every pedlar carry his own pack."
"German","Let every one sweep before his own door."
"German","Let every man carry his own sack to the mill."
"German","Less is more."
"German","Less advice and more hands."
"German","Judges should have two ears, both alike."
"German","Lazybones take all day to get started."
"German","Justice has a waxen nose."
"German","Lawyers' gowns are lined with the wilfulness of their clients."
"German","Lawyers are bad Christians."
"German","Late fruit keeps well."
"German","LA loaded wagon creaks; an empty one rattles."
"German","Knowing hens lay even in nettles."
"German","Kissing don't last but cooking do."
"German","Kindnesses, like grain, increase by sowing."
"German","Kindness breaks no bones."
"German","Keep within compass and you may be sure, That you will not suffer what others endure."
"German","Let the dead rest."
"German","Learned fools are the greatest fools."
"German","More afraid than hurt."
"German","Mind over matter."
"German","Much taste, much waste."
"German","Much money, much friends."
"German","Mouth and heart are wide apart."
"German","Mother, I must have a husband, or I shall set fire to the house."
"German","Mother's truth keeps constant youth."
"German","Most people like short prayers and long sausages."
"German","More people drown in glasses than in rivers."
"German","More is to be got from one teacher than from two books."
"German","More is done with words than with hands."
"German","Much wit is lost in a poor man's purse."
"German","More are drowned in the bowl than in the sea."
"German","Mules are always boasting that their ancestors were horses."
"German","Mony sma's mak a great."
"German","If you would have the lamp burn, you must pour oil into it."
"German","Money talks."
"German","It is no child's play when an old woman dances."
"German","Money leant to a friend must be recovered from an enemy."
"German","Money in the purse dispels melancholy."
"German","Misreckoning is no payment."
"German","Misfortune, wood, and hair, grow throughout the year."
"German","Mirth is the sugar of life."
"German","Money taken, freedom forsaken."
"German","More belongs to riding than a pair of boots."
"German","Necessity breaks iron."
"German","Never fight an enemy whilst it is possible to cheat him."
"German","Never fell oak at the very first stroke."
"German","Neutrals tread on eggs and break none."
"German","Neutrals are soused from above, and singed from below."
"German","Neighbour once over the hedge, neighbour over it again."
"German","Neck or nothing."
"German","Necessity unites hearts."
"German","Necessity teaches even the lame to dance."
"German","Necessity teaches arts."
"German","Necessity teaches all things."
"German","Much wisdom is lost in poor men's mouths."
"German","Necessity has no law."
"German","Millers, tailors, and weavers are not hanged, or the trade would soon be extinct."
"German","Nature teaches us to love our friends, but religion our enemies."
"German","Nature requires little, fancy much."
"German","Nature has given us two ears, two eyes, and but one tongue."
"German","Nature hangs out her sign everywhere."
"German","Nature draws stronger then seven oxen."
"German","Nature and love cannot be hid."
"German","My friend's enemy is often my best friend."
"German","Must is a hard nut."
"German","Murder will out."
"German","Mules make a great fuss about their ancestors having been donkeys."
"German","Necessity seeks bread where it is to be found."
"German","Make the best of a bad bargain."
"German","Mind your own business."
"German","Many can help one."
"German","Many a one threatens, while he quakes for fear."
"German","Many a good cow has a bad calf."
"German","Man without woman, is head without body; woman without man, is body without head."
"German","Man punishes the action, but God the intention."
"German","Man proposes, God disposes."
"German","Man loves but once."
"German","Make yourself an ass, and you'll have every man's sack on your shoulders."
"German","Make yourself an ass, and every one will lay his sack on you."
"German","Many children, and little bread, is a painful pleasure."
"German","Make the cap fit the head."
"German","Many cooks spoil the broth."
"German","Maids say nay, and take."
"German","Maidens say no, and mean yes."
"German","Lying is the first step to the gallows."
"German","Luck sometimes visits a fool, but it never sits down with him."
"German","Luck seeks those who flee and flees those who seek it."
"German","Loving and singing are two things that should not be forced."
"German","Loving and singing are not to be forced."
"German","Love, thieves, and fear, make ghosts."
"German","Love, fire, a cough, the itch, and gout are not to be concealed."
"German","Love's anger is fuel to love."
"German","Make yourself a sheep and the wolf will eat you."
"German","Many take by the bushel, and give with the spoon."
"German","Millers and bakers do not steal, people bring to them."
"German","Merchant to-day, beggar to-morrow."
"German","Meekness is the pride of the humble."
"German","Marrying is easy, but housekeeping is hard."
"German","Marrying in the blood is never good."
"German","Marry in May, rue for aye."
"German","Marry in haste repent at leisure."
"German","Marry in haste and repent at leisure."
"German","Marriage is the opposite to a fever attack; it begins very hot and ends very cold."
"German","Marriage is heaven and hell."
"German","Many can pack the cards that cannot play."
"German","Many trades, begging the best."
"German","Love your neighbour, but don't pull down the fence."
"German","Many small make a great."
"German","Many shun the sword, and come to the gallows."
"German","Many shun the brook, and fall into the river."
"German","Many see more with one eye that others with two."
"German","Many people preach righteousness and perform sins."
"German","Many look with one eye at what they give, but with seven at what they receive."
"German","Many hounds are the death of the hare."
"German","Many have good intentions, but something comes across them."
"German","Many hands make quick work."
"German","Many go out for wool, and come home shorn."
"German","Many who build castles in the air cannot build a hut on earth."
"German","He who looks on know more of the game than he who plays."
"German","How many daily read the Word, and yet from vice are not deterred."
"German","How many daily read the Bible, and yet pursue their course of evil."
"German","How easily a hair gets into the butter."
"German","Honey is never far away from the sting."
"German","Honesty makes you rich, but she works slowly."
"German","Honesty lasts longest."
"German","Hold a candle to the devil."
"German","Hobby horses are more expensive than Arabian stallions."
"German","Hobby horses are dearer than Arabians."
"German","He who would the daughter win, with the mother must begin."
"German","High regions are never without storms."
"German","Hunger drives the wolf out of the wood."
"German","High houses are mostly empty in the upper story."
"German","High climbers and deep swimmers never grow old."
"German","Hide not your light under a bushel."
"German","Herod and Pilate are good friends."
"German","Heaviness may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning."
"German","Heaven protects children, sailors, and drunken men."
"German","Heaven preserve me from my friends."
"German","Hearsay is half lies."
"German","He whose mistress squints, says the ogles."
"German","If you've money, take a seat; it you've none, take to your feet."
"German","His hens lay eggs with two yolks."
"German","I want no drones in my bee-hive."
"German","If bad luck is asleep you must not awaken it."
"German","If a man would know what he is, let him anger his neighbours."
"German","If a dog's prayers were answered, bones would rain from the skies."
"German","Idleness is the sepulchre of a living man."
"German","Idleness is the root of all evil."
"German","Idleness is the beginning of all sin."
"German","Idleness has poverty for wages."
"German","I would rather have a dog my friend than enemy."
"German","I would rather have a dog as a friend than an enemy."
"German","I will win the horse, or lose the saddle."
"German","However long the sun shines upon a thistle, it will never become a rose."
"German","I wept when I was born, and every day shows why."
"German","Howling makes the wolf bigger than he really is."
"German","I rest, therefore I rust."
"German","I give a present to the mother but I think of the daughter."
"German","I can see as far into a mill-stone as another man."
"German","Hussars pray for war, and the doctor for fever."
"German","Hurry no man's cattle."
"German","Hungry flies sting sore."
"German","Hunger leads the wolf to the village."
"German","Hunger is the best cook."
"German","Hunger is the best cook, but he has nothing to eat."
"German","He who would succeed at court, must lie sometimes low, sometimes high."
"German","I will not change a cottage in possession for a kingdom in reversion."
"German","He who plants a garden plants happiness."
"German","He who sleeps along keeps long cold, two soon warm each other."
"German","He who shoots often, hits at last."
"German","He who serves the people has a bad master."
"German","He who serves small masters, is himself one of them."
"German","He who saves in little things, can be liberal in great ones."
"German","He who puts his nose in a turd does not know what he is smelling."
"German","He who prizes little things, is worthy of great ones."
"German","He who prates much, lies much."
"German","He who praises in praesentia, and abuses in absentia, have with him pestilentia."
"German","He who writes love letters must have clammy hands."
"German","He who ploughs with young oxen, makes crooked furrows."
"German","He who stands godfather to a wolf should have a dog under his cloak."
"German","He who pitches too high won't get through his song."
"German","He who pays well may borrow again."
"German","He who pays his debts, betters his condition."
"German","He who marries does well, but who remains single does better."
"German","He who makes himself nothing, is nothing."
"German","He who makes himself honey, will be eaten by the flies."
"German","He who makes friends of all keeps none."
"German","He who makes a mouse of himself, will be eaten by the cats."
"German","Something to every one is good division."
"German","Never give advice unasked."
"German","He who praises himself must have bad neighbours."
"German","He who undertakes to be his own teacher has a fool for a pupil."
"German","He who would rule must hear and be deaf, see and be blind."
"German","He who would prosper in peace, must suffer in silence."
"German","He who would make a golden door must add a nail to it daily."
"German","He who would go further than his horse, must alight and go on foot."
"German","He who would eat in Spain must bring his kitchen along."
"German","He who would climb the ladder must begin at the bottom."
"German","He who would cheat a peasant, must take one with him."
"German","He who won't be advised, can't be helped."
"German","He who wipes the child's nose, means to kiss the mother's cheek."
"German","He who will have eggs, must bear with the cackling."
"German","He who sleeps in a silver bed has golden dreams."
"German","He who wants a fire must be able to bear smoke."
"German","He who spares vice wrongs virtue."
"German","He who treads on eggs, must tread lightly."
"German","He who travels with hope, has poverty for his coachman."
"German","He who tickles himself, laughs when he likes."
"German","He who tickles himself may laugh when he pleases."
"German","He who tickles himself can laugh when he pleases."
"German","He who teaches children learns more than they do."
"German","He who takes no care of little things, will not have the care of great ones."
"German","He who stops half way is only half in error."
"German","He who starts singing too high will never finish the song."
"German","If I am seen, I am joking; if I am not seen, I steal."
"German","He who wants to do a good jump must sometimes take a step back."
"German","Ingratitude sickens benevolence."
"German","It is an ill bird that fouls its own nest."
"German","It is a wise child that knows its own father."
"German","It is a poor fox that has but one hole."
"German","It is a bad well into which one must put water."
"German","It is a bad horse that does not earn his fodder."
"German","It is a bad hen that lays in neighbour's houses."
"German","It hasn't doesn't necessarily mean ""it won't."""
"German","Invalids live longest."
"German","Intemperance is the doctor's wet-nurse."
"German","If every one were wise, a fool would be the prize."
"German","Instead of complaining that the rosebush is full of thorns, be happy that the thorn bush has roses."
"German","It is better the child should cry than the father."
"German","Ingratitude is the world's reward."
"German","Industry is the parent of fortune."
"German","In wine there is wisdom. In beer there is strength. In water there is bacteria."
"German","In times of emergency the devil eats flies."
"German","In time of war the devil makes more room in hell."
"German","In the visible church the true Christians are invisible."
"German","In the morning of life, work; in the mid day give council; in the evening, pray."
"German","In the looking-glass we see our form, in wine the heart."
"German","In the land of the cripple everyone thinks he walks straight."
"German","In the evening one may praise the day."
"German","Intelligence is the best capital."
"German","It is easy to help him, who is willing to be helped."
"German","It is more necessary to guard the mouth than the chest."
"German","He who lives in a glass house should be the last to throw stones."
"German","It is little honor to the lion to seize the mouse."
"German","He who lives on hope, dies of hunger."
"German","It is idle to swallow the cow and choke on the tail."
"German","It is human to err, but diabolical to persevere."
"German","It is harder work getting to hell than to heaven."
"German","It is hard to teach old dogs to bark."
"German","It is hard to steal where the host himself is a thief."
"German","It is hard to catch birds with an empty hand."
"German","It is bad baking without flour and water."
"German","It is good to sleep in a whole skin."
"German","It is bad preaching to deaf ears."
"German","It is easier to guard against a bushel of fleas than a woman."
"German","It is easier to descend than ascend."
"German","It is easier to build two hearths than always to keep fire on one."
"German","It is easier to blame than do better."
"German","It is difficult to scare people who think they will profit from dying."
"German","It is dear honey that must be licked off thorns."
"German","It is better to turn back than go astray."
"German","It is better to trust the eyes rather than the ears."
"German","It is better to deal with a whole fool than half a fool."
"German","In bad luck, hold out; in good luck, hold in."
"German","It is good to swim near a boat."
"German","If the prince wants an apple, his servants take the tree."
"German","In old houses many mice, in old furs many lice."
"German","If you don't like the heat, get out of the kitchen."
"German","If you don't light fires, smoke won't get in your eyes."
"German","If you can't get it in bushels, take it in spoonfuls."
"German","If you are an anvil, be patient; if you are a hammer, strike hard."
"German","If wood-hewing were an order, there would be fewer monks."
"German","If we pay for the music we will take part in the dance."
"German","If there be a hell, Rome is built over it."
"German","If the wolf would cease his running, the people would cease their shouting."
"German","If the wolf had stayed in the wood there would have been no hue and cry after him."
"German","If you don't want to be deceived, you must have as many eyes as hairs on the head."
"German","If the servant grows rich and the master poor, they are both good for nothing."
"German","If you don't want to be hung yourself, blame the dog for stealing the sausage."
"German","If the landlady is fair, the wine is fair."
"German","If the eye does not want to see, neither light nor glasses will help."
"German","If the brain sows not corn, it plants thistles."
"German","If the bitch were not in haste, she would not litter blind puppies."
"German","If something happens to the master the servants will get his share too."
"German","If some men knew who some men were, then some would pay the more honour there."
"German","If I cannot move the powers above, Acheron itself shall be appealed to."
"German","If I canna do't by might, I'll do't by sleight."
"German","If I am to be drowned, it shall be in clean water."
"German","It is more painful to do nothing than something."
"German","If the shoe fits, wear it."
"German","If you want to be strong, conquer yourself."
"German","If fools were to eat no bread, corn would be cheap."
"German","In bad fortune hold out, in good hold in."
"German","In America half an hour is forty minutes."
"German","In America an hour is forty minutes."
"German","In a calm sea, every man is a pilot."
"German","Ill-gotten goods seldom prosper."
"German","Ill gotten goods seldom prosper."
"German","Ill gotten goods never thrive."
"German","Ill got, ill spent."
"German","If you've enjoyed the dance, pay the musicians."
"German","If you don't make mistakes you don't make anything."
"German","If you want to live long, be healthy and fat, drink like a dog and eat like a cat."
"German","In Blindman's land your one-eyed man's a god."
"German","If you want to be old, hang yourself when you are young."
"German","If you want peace, you must prepare for war."
"German","If you want fire, look for it in the ashes."
"German","If you want equality, then go to the graveyard."
"German","If you put out another's candle, you also will be in the dark."
"German","If you let the weeds grow for a year you will need seven to clear them."
"German","If you heat an empty pot it bursts."
"German","If you have no arrows in your quiver, go not with archers."
"German","If you have a good friend, you don't need a mirror."
"German","If you fail to practice your art, it will soon disappear."
"German","If you want to perform a good jump, sometimes you need to start by taking a step back."
"German","Rent and Taxes never sleep."
"German","Revenge remains not unrevenged."
"German","Revenge of an hundred years old hath still its sucking teeth."
"German","Revenge is sweet."
"German","Revenge is new wrong."
"German","Revenge in cold blood is the devil's own act and deed."
"German","Revenge does not long remain unrevenged."
"German","Revenge converts a little right into a great wrong."
"German","Rest comes from unrest, and unrest from rest."
"German","Rest breeds rust."
"German","Put the light out, and all women are alike."
"German","Repentance is the heart's medicine."
"German","Rich people are everywhere at home."
"German","Rejoiced in youth, repented in age."
"German","Red sky at night, shepherd's delight; red sky in the morning, shepherd's warning."
"German","Red sky at night, sailor's delight. Red sky at morning, sailors take warning."
"German","Reason doe not come before years."
"German","Raise no more devils than you can lay."
"German","Ragged colts make the handsomest stallions."
"German","Quick enough, if but good enough."
"German","Quick come, quick go."
"German","Quick believers need broad shoulders."
"German","Soldiers must be well paid, and well hanged."
"German","Report makes the wolf bigger than he is."
"German","Salt and bread make the cheeks red."
"German","Self-done, is soon done."
"German","Self is the man."
"German","Security is the first cause of misfortune."
"German","Security is nowhere safe."
"German","Scratching and borrowing do well enough, but not for long."
"German","Scratch a Russian and you find a Tartar."
"German","Scratch a lover and find an enemy."
"German","Schnapps is schnapps and business is business."
"German","Saying and doing are two things."
"German","Saving is a greater art than gaining."
"German","Rhubarb and patience can work wonders."
"German","Samson was a strong man, but he could not pay money before he had it."
"German","Rich gamblers and old trumpeters are rare."
"German","Saint Swithun's day, if thou be fair, for forty days it will remain; Saint Swithun's day, if thou bring rain, for forty days it will remain."
"German","Saint Martin was an easy man, he loved to drink Cerevisiam; and when he'd no Pecuniam, he left in pledge his Tunicam."
"German","Said in sport, meant in earnest."
"German","Safe over the bridge, one laughs at St. Nepomuck."
"German","Running and buying don't go together -- running and selling do."
"German","Roses and maidens soon lose their bloom."
"German","Right is with the strongest."
"German","Riches cause arrogance; poverty, meekness."
"German","Riches abuse them who know not how to use them."
"German","Put out the fire betimes, ere it reach the roof."
"German","Satiety causes disgust."
"German","Plants oft removed never thrive."
"German","Practice not your art, and it will soon depart."
"German","Practice makes perfect."
"German","Poverty is the sixth sense."
"German","Poverty is cunning; it catches even a fox."
"German","Poverty craves many things, but avarice more."
"German","Poverty and hunger have many learned disciples."
"German","Poor people's words go many to a sackful."
"German","Poor or rich, death makes us all equal."
"German","Politeness travels on short fares."
"German","Quick at meat, quick at work."
"German","Play not with a man till you hurt him, nor jest till you shame him."
"German","Praise a fine day at night."
"German","Places are God's; placemen are the devil's."
"German","Pills must be bolted, not chewed."
"German","Pilgrims seldom come home saints."
"German","Pigeons are taken when crows fly at pleasure."
"German","Piety, prudence, wit, and civility, are the elements of true nobility."
"German","Petty thieves are hanged, you take off your hat to the big ones."
"German","People talk about something until it actually happens."
"German","People show their character by what they laugh at."
"German","People often change and seldom for the better."
"German","Penny wise, and pound foolish."
"German","Politeness is what warmth is to wax."
"German","Priests pay each other no tithes."
"German","Prudent pauses forward business."
"German","Prudent men woo thrifty women."
"German","Prudent men choose frugal wives."
"German","Proverbs are like butterflies, some are caught and some fly away."
"German","Promising is one thing, performing another."
"German","Promises may make friends, but 'tis performances that keep them."
"German","Promises make debts."
"German","Promises have legs. Only a gift has hands."
"German","Promises don't fill the belly."
"German","Promises are like the full moon: if they are not kept at once they diminish day by day."
"German","Practise not your art, and 'twill soon depart."
"German","Priests should not prate out of the confessional."
"German","Praise a fair day at night."
"German","Priests even smile pleasantly on young women."
"German","Priests bless themselves first."
"German","Priests and women never forget."
"German","Priests and road signs show you the way but don't go with you."
"German","Priestly knaves sweat hard at their meat, but never at work get into a heat."
"German","Pride will have a fall."
"German","Presents keep friendship warm."
"German","Pray as though no work could help, and work as though no prayer could help."
"German","Praising is not loving."
"German","Self-preservation is the first law of nature."
"German","Princes have long hands and many ears."
"German","Stubbornness is the energy of fools."
"German","Sweet song has betrayed many."
"German","Sweat makes good mortar."
"German","Summer sown corn and women's advice turn out once in every seven years."
"German","Suit yourself to the times."
"German","Sue a beggar and get a louse."
"German","Sue a beggar and catch a louse."
"German","Sudden trust brings sudden repentance."
"German","Sudden glory soon goes out."
"German","Such as the man is, such will be his discourse."
"German","Self-love is bad, and makes the eyes sad."
"German","Success has many fathers."
"German","Take all you want; eat all you take."
"German","Strong folks have strong maladies."
"German","Strike while the iron is hot."
"German","Stretch yourself according to your cover-lid."
"German","Stretch your legs according to your coverlet."
"German","Street angel, house devil."
"German","Straying shepherd, straying sheep."
"German","Store is no sore."
"German","Still waters run deep."
"German","Standing pools gather filth."
"German","Stand up, farthing, let the florin sit down."
"German","Such a beginning, such an end."
"German","Tell not all you know; believe not all you hear; do not all you are able."
"German","All goes down gutter lane."
"German","He who lives by the sword dies by the sword."
"German","The ass carries corn to the mill, and gets thistles."
"German","The ass bedecked with gold still eats thistles."
"German","The ass and his driver do not think alike."
"German","The anvil is used to noise."
"German","The anvil is not afraid of the hammer."
"German","The anvil fears no blow."
"German","The acre of laziness is full of thistles."
"German","That usury is a sin some hold, but take for granted they've no gold."
"German","Sweet wine makes sour vinegar."
"German","That is not in the looking-glass which is seen in the looking-glass."
"German","Take a horse to the knacker, and throw in bridle and saddle."
"German","Tell no tales out of school."
"German","Tell me with whom you travel, and I'll tell you who you are."
"German","Tell a lie, and you'll hear the truth."
"German","Talking is silver, silence is gold."
"German","Talking is easier than doing, and promising than performing."
"German","Talk of the devil, and his imp appears."
"German","Take the world as it is, not as it ought to be."
"German","Take one step to hell and you are already half way there."
"German","Take care of your plough, and your plough will take care of you."
"German","Spending your money with many a guest, empties the kitchen, the cellar and chest."
"German","That miller is honest who has hair on his teeth."
"German","Short hair is soon brushed."
"German","Stagnant water grows stinking."
"German","Sloth is the key to poverty."
"German","Slaughter no more than you can well salt."
"German","Singers, lovers, and poets are privileged liars."
"German","Singed cats live long."
"German","Sin when you are drunk, pay the fine when you are sober."
"German","Silks and satins put out the kitchen fire."
"German","Silk and velvet put out the kitchen fire."
"German","Silence and reflection cause no dejection."
"German","Sickly body, sickly mind."
"German","Slow but sure."
"German","Short reckonings make long friends."
"German","Slow help is no help."
"German","Shoemaker stick to your last."
"German","She is fond of him--on the side where the pocket hangs."
"German","Shake hands at the beginning and at the end."
"German","Set hard heart against hard hap."
"German","Set a thief to catch a thief."
"German","Set a fox to catch a fox."
"German","Set a beggar on horseback, and he 'll out ride the Devil."
"German","Set a beggar on a horse and he'll ride to the devil."
"German","Services unrequired go unrequited."
"German","Peacock, look at your legs."
"German","Show me a liar, and I'll show you a thief."
"German","So many men, so many opinions."
"German","Self-praise stinks, friends praise hinks, the stranger's is sincere, and may last for a year."
"German","Spend not, where you may save; spare not, where you must spend."
"German","Speedy rise, speedy fall."
"German","Speaking comes by nature, silence by understanding."
"German","Speak, that I may see thee."
"German","Speak little, speak truth. Spend little, pay cash."
"German","Speak fair, and think what you will."
"German","Sorrow does not pay any debts."
"German","Soon ripe, soon rotten."
"German","Sometimes the whole nation has to pay for the foolish deed of one man."
"German","Sloth is the mother of poverty."
"German","So many mists in March, so many frosts in May."
"German","Spur not a willing horse."
"German","So many men, so many minds."
"German","So many countries, so many customs."
"German","So long as the belly is silent all whores are virgins."
"German","So it goes in the world: one has the purse, the other has the gold."
"German","So it goes in the world: one has the purse, the other has the gold."
"German","Small undertakings give great comfort."
"German","Small saints too work miracles."
"German","Small profits are often, are better than large profits and seldom."
"German","Small profits and often, are better than large profits and seldom."
"German","Small molehills can turn carriages over."
"German","Solitude is the nurse of wisdom."
"German","Not all people who have yawned together must get married."
"German","Nothing looks more like a man of sense than a fool who holds his tongue."
"German","Nothing is so new as what has long been forgotten."
"German","Nothing is as new as something which as been long forgotten."
"German","Nothing dries sooner than tears."
"German","Nothing bolder than the miller's shirt, that every morning collars a thief."
"German","Not too little, not too much."
"German","Not to be ashamed of sin is to sin double."
"German","Not every one may pluck roses."
"German","Not every land has all at hand."
"German","Old oxen tread hard."
"German","Not every ass has long ears."
"German","Nothing so bad as not to be good for something."
"German","Not all flowers are fit for nosegays."
"German","Nobody so wise but has a little folly to spare."
"German","Nobody is to blame for all."
"German","Nobles and dogs leave the door open."
"German","Noble is, that noble does."
"German","Noble and common blood is of the same color."
"German","No woman marries an old man for God's sake."
"German","No viper so little but hath its venom."
"German","No villain like the conscientious villain."
"German","No use in flogging a dead horse."
"German","Not every ball hits."
"German","Of war all can tattle, away from the battle."
"German","Penny is penny's brother."
"German","Old crows are hard to catch."
"German","Old churches have dark windows."
"German","Old birds are hard to pluck."
"German","Old age is no protection against foolishness."
"German","Old age is a disease that you die from."
"German","Often shooting hits the mark."
"German","Office without pay makes thieves."
"German","Offenders never pardon."
"German","Offend one monk, and the lappets of all cowls will flutter as far as Rome."
"German","Nothing looks so like a man of sense as a fool who holds his tongue."
"German","Of what use is it that the cow gives plenty of milk, if she upset the pail."
"German","Nothing should be done in a hurry except catching fleas."
"German","Of big words and feathers may go to the pound."
"German","O foolish world, why are you scratching around in the dark?"
"German","Nurenberg wit and a skilful hand, will find their way through every land."
"German","Nowhere are there more hiding places than in the heart."
"German","Nought needs no hiding-place."
"German","Nought is never in danger."
"German","Nought is good for the eyes, but not for the stomach."
"German","Nothing weights lighter than a promise."
"German","Nothing weighs lighter than a promise."
"German","No song, no supper."
"German","Of words and feathers, it takes many to make a pound."
"German","New churches and new taverns are seldom empty."
"German","No tree so small but it can cast a shade."
"German","No jealousy, no love."
"German","No house without a mouse, no barn without corn, no rose without a thorn."
"German","No diadem can cure a headache."
"German","No bed is big enough to hold three."
"German","No armour is proof against the gallows."
"German","No ape but swears he has the handsomest children."
"German","No answer is also an answer."
"German","New songs are eagerly sung."
"German","New laws, new roguery."
"German","No man can like all, or be liked by all."
"German","New come, welcome."
"German","No man's master, no master's man."
"German","New brooms sweep clean."
"German","Never trust to another what you should do yourself."
"German","Never to forsake your ideals is better than dreaming of great things."
"German","Never tickle the nose of a sleeping bear."
"German","Never speak of a rope in the house of one who was hanged."
"German","Never seemed prison fair, or mistress foul."
"German","Never murder a man who is about to commit suicide."
"German","Never listen to these three advisers: wine, the night, and love."
"German","Never grieve over spilt milk."
"German","Never give the skin when you can pay with the wool."
"German","New doctor, new churchyard."
"German","No one is happier than he who believes in his happiness."
"German","Old people see best in the distance."
"German","No smoke without fire."
"German","No pride like that of an enriched beggar."
"German","No person can like all, or be liked by all."
"German","No penny, no paternoster."
"German","No pains, no gains."
"German","No one sees his own faults."
"German","No one likes to bell the cat."
"German","No one knows better where the shoe pinches that he who wears it."
"German","No one is wise enough to advise himself."
"German","No man can do nothing and no man can do everything."
"German","No one is too old to learn."
"German","No tree falls at the first stroke."
"German","No one is either rich or poor who has not helped himself to be so."
"German","No one can guard against treachery."
"German","No one can do nothing, and no one can do everything."
"German","No one can complain of the sea who twice suffers shipwreck."
"German","No one can blow and swallow at the same time."
"German","No one betrays himself by silence."
"German","No names, no pack-drill."
"German","No more teachers, no more books, no more teacher's dirty looks."
"German","No moon, no man."
"German","No money no Swiss."
"German","No one is unhappier than the one who believes in happiness."
"German","One rotten sheepe will marre a whole flocke."
"German","One white foot, buy him; two white feet, try him; three white feet, look well about him; four white feet, go without him."
"German","One wedge drives another."
"German","One to-day is worth two to-morrows."
"German","One to-day is better than ten to-morrows."
"German","One time ""here you are"" is better than ten times ""heaven help you."""
"German","One sword keep another in the sheath."
"German","One swallow does not make a spring."
"German","One story is good till another is told."
"German","One should be born either a king or a fool."
"German","Old love does not rust."
"German","One scabbed sheep will infect a whole flock."
"German","Only when the horses have escaped do men repair the stable."
"German","One rotten egg spoils the whole pudding."
"German","One nail drives out another."
"German","One must plough with the horses he has."
"German","One must glean at harvest time."
"German","One must either be the hammer or the anvil."
"German","One may see through a wall, if there's a hole in it."
"German","One may buy gold too dear."
"German","One marriage is never celebrated but another grows out of it."
"German","One man's story is no story; hear both sides."
"German","One man may steal a horse while another may not look over the hedge."
"German","One shoe will not fit every foot."
"German","Out of the fullness of the heart the mouth speaks."
"German","Never give advice unless asked."
"German","Pay-day comes every day."
"German","Pay in like coin."
"German","Patience is often better than medicine."
"German","Patience is a bitter plant but it has a sweet fruit."
"German","Pardoning the bad is injuring the good."
"German","Paper is patient."
"German","Painted flowers have no scent."
"German","Painted flowers are scentless."
"German","Ox, keep to your grass."
"German","Only believe in the faith of a woman as you would believe in miracles."
"German","Out of the fulness of the heart the mouth speaketh."
"German","Only one can be emperor."
"German","Out of sight out of mind."
"German","Out of a little grass comes a great ass."
"German","Our neighbour's children are always the worst."
"German","Our neighbor's children are always the worst."
"German","Other towns, other lasses."
"German","Opportunity only knocks once."
"German","Opportunity never knocks twice at any man's door."
"German","Opportunity makes the thief."
"German","Open hand makes open hand."
"German","One log does not burn long by itself."
"German","Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee."
"German","Once bit, twice shy."
"German","One man knocks in the nail, and another hangs his hat on it."
"German","One can speak and seven can sing."
"German","One bird in the dish is better than a hundred in the air."
"German","One bee is as good as a handful of flies."
"German","One beats the bush, another catches the bird."
"German","One beats the bush, and another catches the bird."
"German","One bad eye spoils the other."
"German","One bad apple spoils the bunch."
"German","One ass nicknames another ""Long-ears."""
"German","One ""take this"" is better than ten ""God help you!"""
"German","One cannot love and be wise."
"German","Once is people's mouths, 'tis hard to get well out of them."
"German","One cannot wash a blackamoor white."
"German","Once a whore, always a whore."
"German","Once a thief, always a thief."
"German","On the day of victory no fatigue is felt."
"German","On Saint Thomas the Divine kill all turkeys, geese and swine."
"German","On poor people's beards the young barber learns his trade."
"German","Old wounds easily bleed."
"German","Old trees are not to be bent."
"German","Old thieves make good jailers."
"German","Old pottage is sooner heated than new made."
"German","Old pigs have hard snouts."
"German","Once upon a time, no time."
"German","One fool praises another."
"German","Pearls of wisdom."
"German","One link broken, the whole chain is broken."
"German","One knife whets another."
"German","One kisses the nurse for the sake of the child."
"German","One kisses the child for the mother's sake, and the mother for the child's sake."
"German","One hour's sleep before midnight is better than two after it."
"German","One has only to die to be praised."
"German","One hand washes the other."
"German","One half the world laughs at the other half."
"German","One half of the world does not know how the other half lives."
"German","One cannot keep peace longer than his neighbour will let him."
"German","One good turn deserves another."
"German","One man is another's devil."
"German","One fool may ask more questions than seven wise men can answer."
"German","One foe is too many, and a hundred friends are too few."
"German","One enemy is too much, and a hundred friends are not enough."
"German","One enemy can harm you more than a hundred friends can do you good."
"German","One dog growls to see another go into the kitchen."
"German","One does evil enough when one does nothing good."
"German","One crow does not peck out another's eyes."
"German","One crow does not make a winter."
"German","One coward makes ten."
"German","One catches the hare, another eats it."
"German","One hair of a woman draws more than a bell-rope."
"German","Assertion is no proof."
"German","Bad money always comes back."
"German","Bad eyes never see any good."
"German","Bad bird, bad egg."
"German","Bacchus hath drowned more men than Neptune."
"German","Away from the battle all are soldiers."
"German","Avarice hoards itself poor; charity gives itself rich."
"German","At night all cats are grey."
"German","At evening the sluggard is busy."
"German","At court there are many hands, but few hearts."
"German","As the mistress, so the maid."
"German","Asses sing badly, because they pitch their voices too high."
"German","Bad ware must be cried up."
"German","As you sow, you shall reap."
"German","As you make your bed so you must lie upon it."
"German","As you bake so shall you brew."
"German","As won, so spent."
"German","As the twig is bent, so is the tree inclined."
"German","As the tree, so the fruit; as the mistress, so the maid."
"German","As the tree, so the fruit."
"German","As the old cock crows so crows the young."
"German","As the old birds sings, the young ones twitter."
"German","Councils of war never fight."
"German","Asses that bray most eat least."
"German","Bear and bull catch no fox."
"German","Better a good cow than a cow of a good kind."
"German","Better a good conscience without wisdom than wisdom without a good conscience."
"German","Better a friendly refusal than an unwilling promise."
"German","Better a friendly denial than an unwilling compliance."
"German","Begun is half done."
"German","Beginning and ending shake hands."
"German","Begin to weave and God will give the thread."
"German","Begged bread has a hard crust."
"German","Before God and the bus driver we are all equal."
"German","Beauty is the eye's food but the soul's sorrow."
"German","Bad money drives out good."
"German","Beard and cloak do not make one a philosopher."
"German","Bad tidings always come too soon."
"German","Be the thing you would be called."
"German","Be silent, or say something better than silence."
"German","Be not ashamed of your craft."
"German","Be as you would seem to be."
"German","Barren corn makes bitter bread."
"German","Barnaby bright, Barnaby bright, the longest day and the shortest night."
"German","Barking dogs seldom bite."
"German","Barking dogs don't bite."
"German","Bargains are costly."
"German","As the master, so the work."
"German","Beauty is a good letter of introduction."
"German","Amendment is repentance."
"German","An old man loved is a winter with flowers."
"German","An old lie is often more popular than a new truth."
"German","An old fox does not run twice into the snare."
"German","An old error is always more popular than a new truth."
"German","An old coachman loves the crack of the whip."
"German","An old broom knows the corners of the house."
"German","An idle brain is the devil's workshop."
"German","An error no wider than a hair will lead a hundred miles away from the goal."
"German","An enemy that is surprised is already half-defeated."
"German","As the old birds sing, so the young ones twitter."
"German","An ass in Germany is a professor in Rome."
"German","An uneducated person is like an unpolished mirror."
"German","Ambition and fleas jump high."
"German","Ambition and fleas both jump high."
"German","Always something new, seldom something good."
"German","Almost never killed a fly."
"German","All's well that ends well."
"German","All's fair in love and war."
"German","All your geese are swans."
"German","All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy."
"German","All wooers are rich, and all captives poor."
"German","All the keys do not hang at one girdle."
"German","An empty sack will not stand upright."
"German","As a man eats, so he works."
"German","As the labour, so the pay."
"German","As the field, so the crops; as the father, so the sons."
"German","As soon a man is born he begins to die."
"German","As princes fiddle, subjects must dance."
"German","As is the gardener, so is the garden."
"German","As he thinketh in his heart, so is he."
"German","As good eat the devil as the broth he was boiled in."
"German","As good be an addled egg as an idle bird."
"German","As fortune is sought, so it is found."
"German","As fast as laws are devised, their evasion is contrived."
"German","An ounce of a mother's wit is worth a pound of schoolgirl's wit."
"German","As a thing is used, so it brightens."
"German","An ounce of mother-wit is worth a pound of school-wit."
"German","Art holds fast when all else is lost."
"German","April weather, woman's love, rose-leaves, dice, and card-luck, change every moment."
"German","Appearances are deceptive."
"German","Appearances are deceitful."
"German","Apes remain apes, though you cloth them in velvet."
"German","Another man's horse and your own spurs outrun the wind."
"German","Anger without power is folly."
"German","Anger hears no counsel."
"German","Anger can't stand, without a strong hand."
"German","Better a lean peace than a fat victory."
"German","As a tree falls, so shall it lie."
"German","Business before pleasure."
"German","Charity see the need not the cause."
"German","Charity looks at the need and not at the cause."
"German","Charity gives itself rich, covetousness hoards itself poor."
"German","Care killed the cat."
"German","Care brings on grey hairs, and age without years."
"German","By night all cats are grey."
"German","Buying is cheaper than asking."
"German","Buyers want a hundred eyes, sellers only one."
"German","Buy your neighbour's ox, and woo your neighbour's daughter."
"German","Better a good hanging than a bad marriage."
"German","Bustle is not industry."
"German","Cheating is more honourable than stealing."
"German","Building castles in the air."
"German","Build golden bridges for the flying foe."
"German","Bring up a raven, and he will peck out your eyes."
"German","Bread in one hand, a stone in the other."
"German","Brandy is as lead in the morning, silver at noon, and gold at night."
"German","Boys avoid the bees that stung 'em."
"German","Bought wit is best."
"German","Bought wisdom is best."
"German","Both noble and common blood are the same color."
"German","Both legs in the stocks or only one, 'tis all the same."
"German","Buy when it is market time."
"German","Claw me and I'll claw thee."
"German","All had rather it were well for themselves than for another."
"German","Continual cheerfulness is a sign of wisdom."
"German","Contentment is worth more than riches."
"German","Consult with your pillow."
"German","Constant occupation prevents temptation."
"German","Constant dropping wears the stone."
"German","Confidence begets confidence."
"German","Compliments cost nothing, yet many pay dearly for them."
"German","Common fame is seldom to blame."
"German","Cold hands, warm heart."
"German","Charity sees the need, not the cause."
"German","Coffee and love are best when they are hot."
"German","Charity sees the need; not the cause."
"German","Christians have no neighbours."
"German","Choose thy love. Love thy choice."
"German","Children and fools tell the truth."
"German","Children and fools speak the truth."
"German","Cheese is gold in the morning, silver at noon, and lead at night."
"German","Cheese and bread make the cheeks red."
"German","Cheerful company shortens the journey."
"German","Cheats never prosper."
"German","Cheating is the chapman's cart and plough."
"German","Bolt a door with a boiled carrot."
"German","Cold hand, a warm heart."
"German","Better bend than break."
"German","Borrowing does well only once."
"German","Better something than nothing at all."
"German","Better play at small game than stand out."
"German","Better one-eyed than stone blind."
"German","Better one living word than a hundred dead ones."
"German","Better no spoon than no soup."
"German","Better is better."
"German","Better is an enemy to good."
"German","Better half an egg than empty shells."
"German","Better give nothing than stolen alms."
"German","Better twice remembered than once forgotten."
"German","Better envy than pity."
"German","Better, There he goes, than There he hangs."
"German","Better badly mounted than proud on foot."
"German","Better aught than nought."
"German","Better ask twice than go wrong once."
"German","Better an unjust peace than a just war."
"German","Better an honest enemy than a false friend."
"German","Better an empty purse than an empty head."
"German","Better alone than in bad company."
"German","Better a patch than a hole."
"German","Better a living dog than a dead lion."
"German","All men are baked in the same clay."
"German","Better free in a foreign land than a serf at home."
"German","Big churches, little saints."
"German","Better a lean agreement than a fat lawsuit."
"German","Boldness in business is the first, second, and third thing."
"German","Boldly ventured is half won."
"German","Blood is thicker than water."
"German","Blaming is easy; doing better is more difficult."
"German","Black cows give white milk."
"German","Bitter pills may have wholesome effects."
"German","Bitter pills are gilded."
"German","Birds of prey do not sing."
"German","Birds of a feather flock together."
"German","Better to go to bed supperless than run in debt."
"German","Big head, little wit."
"German","Boredom is the father of all sins."
"German","Beware of men who flourish hereditary honors."
"German","Beware of laughing hosts and weeping priests."
"German","Beware of a silent dog and still water."
"German","Betwixt two stools the doup fas down."
"German","Between wrangling and disputing truth is lost."
"German","Between wording and working is a long road."
"German","Between the hand and the lip the soup may be spilt."
"German","Between the anvil and the hammer."
"German","Between neighbours' gardens a hedge is not amiss."
"German","Between a woman's ""Yes"" and ""No"" there is no room for the point of a needle."
"German","Big trees cast more shadow than fruit."
"German","A day after the fair."
"German","A fence makes love more keen."
"German","A fence lasts three years, a dog lasts three fences, a horse three dogs, and a man three horses."
"German","A father maintains ten children better than ten children one father."
"German","A fat kitchen makes a lean will."
"German","A drop of honey catches more flies than a hogshead of vinegar."
"German","A dripping June sets all in tune."
"German","A drink is shorter than a tale."
"German","A dream grants what one covets when awake."
"German","A dram of discretion is worth a pound of wisdom."
"German","A hundred years of regret pay not a farthing of debt."
"German","A doctor and a boor know more than a doctor alone."
"German","A foreign language is more easily learned in the kitchen than at school."
"German","A danger foreseen is half avoided."
"German","A dainty stomach beggars the purse."
"German","A crown is no cure for the headache."
"German","A country can be judged by the quality of its proverbs."
"German","A close mouth catcheth no flies."
"German","A close mouth and open eyes never did any one harm."
"German","A clear conscience is a soft pillow."
"German","A clean mouth and honest hand, will take a man through any land."
"German","A cat may look at a king."
"German","A cat is a lion to mouse."
"German","A donkey in Saxony is a professor in Rome."
"German","A good soldier has only three things to think about; the king, God, and nothing."
"German","All the fruit is not found in just one field."
"German","A huckster who cannot pass off mouse-turd for pepper, has not learned his trade."
"German","A honey tongue, a heart of gall."
"German","A hog in armor is still a hog."
"German","A hired horse and one's own spurs make short miles."
"German","A hedge between keeps a friendship green."
"German","A happy man does not hear the clock strike."
"German","A handful of might is better than a sack full of right."
"German","A gosling flew over the Rhine, and came home a goose."
"German","A good tree bears good fruit."
"German","A fish should swim thrice: in water, in sauce, and in wine."
"German","A good speaker makes a good liar."
"German","A flatterer has water in one hand and fire in the other."
"German","A good name is a second inheritance."
"German","A good name is a rich inheritance."
"German","A good meal is worth hanging for."
"German","A good lie finds more believers than a bad truth."
"German","A good conscience is a soft pillow."
"German","A good book praises itself."
"German","A golden hammer breaks an iron gate."
"German","A golden bit makes none the better horse."
"German","A glutton young, a beggar old."
"German","A burnt child dreads the fire."
"German","A good trade will carry farther than a thousand florins."
"German","I have is a better bird than ""If I had."""
"German","A cat in gloves catches no mice."
"German","Your words are fair, said the wolf, ""but I will not come into the village."""
"German","With great pleasure, says the boor, when he must."
"German","With all my heart! says the boor, when he must."
"German","Success to you! God speed the craft! as the hangman said to the judge."
"German","Red is Love's colour, said the wooer to his foxy charmer."
"German","O what we must suffer for the sake of God's church! said the abbot, when the roast fowl burned his fingers."
"German","Must is a bitter herb."
"German","Like will to like, as the devil said to the coal-burner."
"German","If you have no money, turn placeman! as the court fool said to his sovereign."
"German","'Tis easier to hurt than heal."
"German","I will not bite any dog, says the shepherd's dog, ""for I must save my teeth for the wolf."""
"German","'Tis either a hare or a brake-bush."
"German","I have had is a poor man."
"German","Had I known is a poor man."
"German","Great cry and little wool, said the fool, when he sheared a pig."
"German","Force me, and I shall commit no sin, said the girl."
"German","But is a fence over which few leap."
"German","Away with you, be a peddlar, a knave, says the hangman to his man."
"German","An egg is an egg, said the beadle, but he took the goose-egg."
"German","All freight lightens, said the skipper, when he threw his wife overboard."
"German","Age before beauty, said the devil as he threw his grandmother off' the stairs."
"German","The ass loaded with gold still eats thistles."
"German","If I rest, I rust, says the key."
"German","A bad penny always comes back."
"German","A hundred years of wrong do not make an hour of right."
"German","A bolt does not always fall when it thunders."
"German","A bold onset is half the battle."
"German","A bold does not always fall when it thunders."
"German","A blind man swallows many a fly."
"German","A blind leader of the blind."
"German","A blind horse goes straightforward."
"German","A better seldom comes after."
"German","A bashful dog never fattens."
"German","A bargain is a bargain."
"German","'But' is a fence over which few leap."
"German","A bad penny always turns up."
"German","A cat has nine lives, as the onion seven skins."
"German","A bad cause requires many words."
"German","A bad beginning may make a good ending."
"German","'Tis written, ""What's not your own, that let alone."""
"German","'Tis too late to spare, when the bottom is bare."
"German","'Tis the mind ennobles, not the blood."
"German","'Tis one beggar's woe, to see another by the door go."
"German","'Tis not for everyone to catch a salmon."
"German","'Tis never too late to mend."
"German","'Tis his turn to-day, it will be mine to-morrow."
"German","'Tis hard to swim against the stream."
"German","A baptised Jew is a circumcised Christian."
"German","A woman and a glass are always in danger."
"German","A young doctor means a new graveyard."
"German","A word is enough to the wise."
"German","A woman, a dog, and a walnut tree, the more you beat them the better they be."
"German","A woman's work is never done."
"German","A woman's vengeance knows no bounds."
"German","A woman's first advice is her best."
"German","A woman without a man is like a garden without a fence."
"German","A woman strong in flounces is weak in the head."
"German","A woman keeps secret only what she does not know."
"German","A hug a day keeps the demons at bay."
"German","A woman and a stove may not leave the house."
"German","Abroad to see wonders the traveller goes, And neglects the fine things which lie under his nose."
"German","A wise man, a strong man."
"German","A wall between increases love."
"German","A used plough shines, standing water stinks."
"German","A truth that comes too early or too late is just like a lie."
"German","A thing is not bad if well understood."
"German","A thief who steals from a thief is not a thief."
"German","A thief seldom grows rich by thieving."
"German","A tear bedews my Delia's eye, From morn till dewy eve; But if you ask the reason why, She can't tell, I believe."
"German","A teacher is better than two books."
"German","A sparrow in the hand is better than a pigeon on the roof."
"German","A woman has the form of an angel, the heart of a serpent, and the mind of an ass."
"German","After dinner stand a while, or walk nearly half a mile."
"German","Count not your chickens before they are hatched."
"German","All is not gold that glitters."
"German","All good things must come to an end."
"German","All ask if a man be rich, no one if he be good."
"German","All are not thieves that dogs bark at."
"German","All are not hunters that blow the horn."
"German","All are not free who mock their chains."
"German","All are not cooks who carry long knives."
"German","All are not asleep who have their eyes shut."
"German","Agree, for the law is costly."
"German","A young wife is an old man's post-horse to the grave."
"German","After meat comes mustard."
"German","Abroad one has a hundred eyes, at home not one."
"German","After clouds comes clear weather."
"German","After Christmas comes Lent."
"German","Affectation is a greater injury to the face than small-pox."
"German","Advising is often better than fighting."
"German","Advising is easier than helping."
"German","Advice should precede the act."
"German","Advice is not compulsion."
"German","Adam must have an Eve, to blame for his own faults."
"German","Abundance begets indifference."
"German","A single stroke don't fell the oak."
"German","After rain comes sunshine."
"German","A little too late, is much too late."
"German","A smart witch can also dance without a broomstick."
"German","A man trying to sell a blind horse always praises its feet."
"German","A man surprised is half beaten."
"German","A man shows his character by what he laughs at."
"German","A man has two ears and one mouth that he hear much and speak little."
"German","A man has learned much who has learned how to die."
"German","A man convinced against his will is of the same opinion still."
"German","A lovelorn cook oversalts the porridge."
"German","A lot will stick to dirty hands."
"German","A lordly taste make a beggar's purse."
"German","A man's face is a lion's."
"German","A load of March dust is worth a ducat."
"German","A man, a word; a word, a man."
"German","A little spark kindles a great fire."
"German","A light belly, heavy heart."
"German","A lie becomes true when one believes it."
"German","A lean compromise is better than a fat lawsuit."
"German","A lean agreement is better than a fat lawsuit."
"German","A lawyer and a wagon-wheel must be well greased."
"German","A lawyer and a wagon wheel must be well greased."
"German","A lawyer and a cartwheel must be well greased."
"German","A lawyer and a cart-wheel must be greased."
"German","A hungry belly has no ears."
"German","A loaded wagon creaks; an empty one rattles."
"German","A person has learned much who has learned how to die."
"German","All skill is in vain when an angel pees in the touchhole of your musket."
"German","A single penny fairly got, is worth a thousand that are not."
"German","A shroud has no pockets."
"German","A second woman has golden thighs."
"German","A sack full of fleas is easier to watch than a woman."
"German","A ripe pear is more likely to fall in the shit than onto the clean ground."
"German","A refined kitchen leads to the pharmacy."
"German","A proverb never lies, it is only its meaning which deceives."
"German","A prophet is not without honor save in his own country."
"German","A promise is a debt."
"German","A man warned is half saved."
"German","A poor person isn't he who has little, but he who needs a lot."
"German","A small gift is better than a great promise."
"German","A penny saved is two-pence got."
"German","A penny saved is a penny got."
"German","A penny saved is a penny gained."
"German","A pack of cards is the devil's prayer-book."
"German","A necessary lie is harmless."
"German","A nail secures the horse-shoe, the shoe the horse, the horse the man, the man the castle, and the castle the whole land."
"German","A monk in his cloister, a fish in the water, a thief in the gallows."
"German","A mistake is no fraud."
"German","A millstone gathers no moss."
"German","A marriage in later years sends a letter to the grave digger."
"German","A prince without ears to listen has no head to govern."
"German","Handsome is as handsome does."
"German","He goes as willingly as a thief to the gallows."
"German","He goes about it like a cat round hot milk."
"German","He dances well to whom fortune pipes."
"German","Having is haying, come whence it may."
"German","Hat in hand goes through the land."
"German","Hasten at leisure."
"German","Hares are caught with hounds, fools with praise, and women with gold."
"German","Hard against hard never was good."
"German","Happy is the one who forgets that which cannot be changed."
"German","Great trees give more shade than fruit."
"German","Handsome is the handsome does."
"German","He has his finger in every pie."
"German","Handsome apples are sometimes sour."
"German","Half a loaf is better than no bread."
"German","Half a house is half a hell."
"German","Hackney mistress, Hackney maid."
"German","Habit is the intelligence of the crowd."
"German","Guard your mouth as well as you guard your chest."
"German","Green wood gives more smoke than heat."
"German","Green Christmas, a white Easter."
"German","Greedy fowk hae long arms."
"German","Could everything be done twice, everything would be done better."
"German","Happiness opens the arms and closes the eyes."
"German","He must have keen eyes that would know a maid at sight."
"German","He that is born to be hanged will never be drowned."
"German","He that hunts others, must run himself."
"German","He that has no head, need no hat."
"German","He that has lost his credit is dead to the world."
"German","He that has good legs, has often bad boots."
"German","He that finds fault wants to buy."
"German","He that climbs high, falls heavily."
"German","He that asketh faintly beggeth a denial."
"German","He that always thinks it is too soon is sure to come too late."
"German","He struck at Tib, but down fell Tim."
"German","He has beans in his ears."
"German","He plays best, who wins."
"German","He has given the hen for the egg."
"German","He laughs ill that laughs himself to death."
"German","He laughs best who laughs last."
"German","He laughs at scars who never felt a wound."
"German","He is rich enough who is contented."
"German","He is lucky who forgets what cannot be mended."
"German","He is a fool and ever shall, Who writes his name upon a wall."
"German","He is a bad workman who cannot talk of work."
"German","He is a bad smith who cannot bear smoke."
"German","He is a bad shot who cannot find an excuse."
"German","Great things are done more through courage than through wisdom."
"German","He sticks his nose in everything."
"German","God is everywhere, except where he has a delegate."
"German","Good counsel never comes too late."
"German","Good counsel comes over night."
"German","Good bargains empty your pockets."
"German","Good bargains empty the purse."
"German","Gone is gone; no Jew will lend upon it."
"German","Gold may be bought too dear."
"German","Gold lies deep in the mountain, dirt on the highway."
"German","Gold goes in at any gate."
"German","God's mill goes slowly, but it grinds well."
"German","Greatness alone in not enough, or the cow would outrun the hare."
"German","God will help a seaman in a storm but the pilot must still remain at the wheel."
"German","Good luck, with good looking after."
"German","God helps them that help themselves."
"German","God helps the strongest."
"German","God gives, but man must open his hand."
"German","God gives us nuts but he does not crack them for us."
"German","God gives us milk but no jug."
"German","God gives the nuts, but He does not crack them."
"German","God gave us hands but He doesn't build bridges with them."
"German","God forgives sinners, otherwise His heaven would be empty."
"German","God cures the sick, and the doctor gets the money."
"German","Go to the law for a sheep and lose your cow."
"German","God's friends, the priest's foe."
"German","Got with the fife, spent with the drum."
"German","Great thieves hang little thieves."
"German","Great talkers are commonly liars."
"German","Great speakers are usually liars."
"German","Great say-masters, bad pay-masters."
"German","Great oaks from little acorns grow."
"German","Great minds think alike."
"German","Great men's vices are accounted sacred."
"German","Great men's servants don't think little of themselves."
"German","Great men's requests are commands."
"German","Great men may just with saints."
"German","Good faith is a seldom guest, when you have him, hold him fast."
"German","Grain and graciousness grow on good ground."
"German","Good faith stole the cow."
"German","Good wines needs no bush."
"German","Good wine sells itself."
"German","Good wine ruins the purse, and bad the stomach."
"German","Good wine needs no bush."
"German","Good wine is milk for the aged."
"German","Good will gives wings to the feet."
"German","Good thongs may be cut out of other people's hides."
"German","Good people live far asunder."
"German","Good pay makes happy workers."
"German","He that may not as he wad, maun do as he may."
"German","Great fish are caught in great waters."
"German","He who has lost his freedom has nothing else to lose."
"German","He who has victory, has right."
"German","He who has to do with foxes must look after his hen-roost."
"German","He who has three enemies must agree with two."
"German","He who has the Pope for his cousin may soon be a Cardinal."
"German","He who has the fortune brings home the bride."
"German","He who has one foot in a brothel, has the other in a hospital."
"German","He who has once invited the devil into his house, will never be rid of him."
"German","He who has once burnt his mouth always blows his soup."
"German","He who has not tasted bitter things, knows not what sweet is."
"German","He that is busy is tempted but by one devil, he that is idle by a legion."
"German","He who has no enemies has no friends either."
"German","He who holds the ladder is as bad as the thief."
"German","He who has left a rogue behind him, has made a good day's journey."
"German","He who has good neighbours, gets a good morning."
"German","He who has burned his mouth blows his soup."
"German","He who has a glass roof must not throw stones at others."
"German","He who handles pitch, besmears himself."
"German","He who handle pitch besmears himself."
"German","He who grasps too much lets much fall."
"German","He who grasps at all, holds nothing fast."
"German","He who goes to bed with dogs, will wake up with fleas."
"German","He who gives, must take."
"German","He who has no shoes dances in his socks."
"German","He who is not for me, is against me."
"German","He who listens to a proposition is already half sold."
"German","He who likes cherries soon learns to climb."
"German","He who lies on the ground must expect to be trodden on."
"German","He who lies in the grave, is well lodged."
"German","He who lends to the poor gets his interest from God."
"German","He who lends to the poor get his interest from God."
"German","He who laughs last, laughs longest."
"German","He who laughs last, laughs best."
"German","He who is the judge between two friends loses one of them."
"German","He who is quick to borrow, is slow to pay."
"German","He who hath ears to hear, let him hear."
"German","He who is of on use to himself, is of no use to any one else."
"German","He who heeds not the lost shoe-nail, will soon lose the horse."
"German","He who is his own teacher, has a fool for his pupil."
"German","He who is feared by many, fears many."
"German","He who is born to misfortunate stumbles as he goes, and though he fall on his back will fracture his nose."
"German","He who is always drinking and stuffing, will in time become a ragamuffin."
"German","He who is afraid of doing too much, always does too little."
"German","He who is absent is always in the wrong."
"German","He who invites storks must have frogs in the house."
"German","He who inherits a penny is expected to spend a dollar."
"German","He who inherits a farthing, is expected to disburse a dollar."
"German","He who forces love when none is found, remains a fool the whole year round."
"German","He who is quick at borrowing, is slow in paying."
"German","He that would cheat a Jew, must be a Jew."
"German","He who gives to the poor, lends to the Lord."
"German","He who brings, is welcome."
"German","He who brings bad tidings, comes soon enough."
"German","He who borrows sells his freedom."
"German","He who blows on the fire will get sparks in his eyes."
"German","He who blows in the fire will get sparks in his eyes."
"German","He who blackens others does not whiten himself."
"German","He who begins too much accomplishes little."
"German","He who begins much, finishes little."
"German","He who always thinks it is too soon, is sure to come too late."
"German","He who builds on the public way, must let the people have their say."
"German","He that would eat the fruit must climb the tree."
"German","He who buys a house gets many a plank and nail for nothing."
"German","He that won't listen, must feel."
"German","He that will not be saved needs no preacher."
"German","He that wants to eat the kernel must crack the nut."
"German","He that wants the kernel must crack the nut."
"German","He that sits among reeds, cuts pipes when he pleases."
"German","He that says A, must also say B."
"German","He that picks up all sorts of wood, soon gets an armful."
"German","He that pelts every barking dog, must pick up a great many stones."
"German","He that peeps into every bush will hardly get into the wood."
"German","Gifts are according to the giver."
"German","He that would stop everybody's mouth needs plenty of flour."
"German","He who digs a pit for others falls into it himself."
"German","He that marries for love has good nights, but sorry days."
"German","He who follows the crowd has many companions."
"German","He who finds what has not been lost, will chance to die before he is ill."
"German","He who fain would marry, in choice should not tarry."
"German","He who envies, suffers."
"German","He who drinks no more still likes to see the beer pulled."
"German","He who does not want to lend loses friends; he who lends gains enemies."
"German","He who does not punish evil invites it."
"German","He who does not open his eyes must open his purse."
"German","He who does not improve to-day will grow worse to-morrow."
"German","He who builds by the road-side has many masters."
"German","He who does not bait his hook catches nothing."
"German","He who gives quickly, gives doubly."
"German","He who dies for the truth finds holy ground everywhere for his grave."
"German","He who cries today that he has no bread will cry again tomorrow because he isn't hungry."
"German","He who conquers his anger has conquered an enemy."
"German","He who conceits himself wise, has an ass near at hand."
"German","He who cheats a cheat and robs a thief, earns a dispensation for 100 years."
"German","He who cannot pay with his purse, must pay with his hide."
"German","He who cannot paint must grind the colours."
"German","He who cannot help, may hinder."
"German","He who can does, he who cannot, teaches."
"German","He who buys what he don't want, will soon sell what he does want."
"German","He who does not go forward, stays behind."
"German","Ducats are clipped, pence are not."
"German","East, west, home's best."
"German","East or west, home is best."
"German","Early to rise and late to bed, lifts again the debtor's head."
"German","Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise."
"German","Early marriage, long love."
"German","Eagles don't catch flies."
"German","Eagles do not breed doves."
"German","Dying is not child's play."
"German","Dwarfs see giants everywhere."
"German","Every glowworm is not a fire."
"German","Ducks quack loudly before a rain."
"German","Eating and drinking holds body and soul together."
"German","Drunk sweetly, paid sourly."
"German","Drive not a second nail till the first be clinched."
"German","Drive gently over the stones."
"German","Drive a rat into a corner, and he'll jump at you."
"German","Drinking a little too much is drinking a great deal too much."
"German","Drink upon salad costs the doctor a ducat; drink upon eggs costs him two."
"German","Drink makes you forget your sorrow; but only, alas, until tomorrow."
"German","Dreams are froth."
"German","Don't throw away your old shoes until you have a new pair."
"German","Don't throw away your dirty water till you have got clean."
"German","Dumb dogs and still water are dangerous."
"German","Even a hair casts its shadow."
"German","Give up the smallest part of a secret, and the rest is no longer in your power."
"German","Every cock crows best on his own dunghill."
"German","Every clown can find fault, though it would puzzle him to do better."
"German","Every beginning is hard, said the thief, when he began by stealing an anvil."
"German","Ever one hair, only one, and the man is bald at last."
"German","Even the lion must defend himself against the flies."
"German","Even the lion has to defend himself against flies."
"German","Even the devil's grandmother was a nice girl when she was young."
"German","Even the devil is beautiful when he is young."
"German","Even the best hack stumbles once."
"German","Eat less, live longer."
"German","Even counted sheep are eaten by the wolf."
"German","Eat your fish while it is still fresh and marry the girl while she is still young."
"German","Even a fool can govern if nothing happens."
"German","Erring is not cheating."
"German","Envy envies itself."
"German","Envy eats nothing, but its own heart."
"German","Entreat him in jackass fashion; if he won't carry the sack, give him a whack."
"German","Enough is better than too much."
"German","Enough is better than a sackful."
"German","Empty casks make the most sound."
"German","Either fight not with priests or beat them to death."
"German","Don't make a mouse of yourself, or else you will be eaten by cats."
"German","Even ill-natured cows give milk."
"German","Cut your coat according to your cloth."
"German","Don't sell the bear-skin before you have killed the bear."
"German","Dissemblers oftener deceive themselves than others."
"German","Disputing and borrowing cause grief and sorrowing."
"German","Devils must be driven out with devils."
"German","Deferred is not annulled."
"German","Debtors are liars."
"German","Dear physic always does good, if not to the patient, at least to the apothecary."
"German","Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savour."
"German","Dead dogs don't bite."
"German","Daughters are easy to rear, but hard to marry."
"German","Do not despise an insignificant enemy, nor a slight wound."
"German","Cut your coat to suit your cloth."
"German","Do not divide the spoil till the victory is won."
"German","Curiosity killed the cat."
"German","Cunning surpasses strength."
"German","Crooked wood burns quite as well as straight."
"German","Criticism of the state is all right, but don't forget the nation is you."
"German","Crime is cunning; it puts an angel in front of every devil."
"German","Credit is better than ready money."
"German","Crazy wheels run longest."
"German","Cowards may die many times before their death."
"German","Cowards have no luck."
"German","Count your blessings."
"German","Daughter-in-law hates mother-in-law."
"German","Don't carry your head too high, the door is low."
"German","Every hare may pluck the dead lion's mane."
"German","Don't let your tongue say what your head may have to pay for."
"German","Don't learn too much, Jack, else you must do a great deal."
"German","Don't get mad, get even."
"German","Don't fly till your wings are feathered."
"German","Don't divide the spoil before the victory is won."
"German","Don't cry fish before they're caught."
"German","Don't cry before you're hurt."
"German","Don't cry before you are hurt."
"German","Don't cry ""Hurra!"" till you are over the ditch."
"German","Distance lends enchantment to the view."
"German","Don't cast your pearls before swine."
"German","Don't reckon without your host."
"German","Don't buy a cat in a sack."
"German","Don't budge, if you sit at ease."
"German","Doing nothing teaches doing ill."
"German","Doing nothing is doing ill."
"German","Dogs that bark much don't bite."
"German","Doctors purge the body, ministers the conscience, lawyers the purse."
"German","Doctors are the signposts to heaven."
"German","Doctor Luther's shoes do not fit every parish priest."
"German","Do what thou doest."
"German","Do not ship all in one bottom."
"German","Don't change horses in mid stream."
"German","Flatterers haunt not cottages."
"German","For a lot of people their conscience lives in the middle of the street."
"German","Fools rush in where angels fear to tread."
"German","Fools refuse favours."
"German","Fools must not be set on eggs."
"German","Fools live poor to die rich."
"German","Fools grow without watering."
"German","Fools for luck."
"German","Fools build houses, wise men buy them."
"German","Follow Love and it will flee, Flee love and it will follow thee."
"German","Every fool is different."
"German","Flatters, like cats, lick and then scratch."
"German","For the diligent, a week has seven days; for the slothful, seven tomorrows."
"German","Flatterers are cats that lick before and scratch behind."
"German","Five fingers hold more than two forks."
"German","Fish begin to stink at the head."
"German","First weigh, then venture."
"German","First look at home, then censure me."
"German","Fire is a good servant but a bad master."
"German","Fire in the heart sends smoke into the head."
"German","Fire and faggot are but sad reformers."
"German","Fir and water are good servants, but bad masters."
"German","Few laws, good nations."
"German","Folks say there is a lack of four sorts of people on earth: of priests, else one would not have six or seven benefices; of gentleman, else every boor would not want to be a squire; of whores, else married women and nuns would not carry on the trade; of Jews, else Christians would not practise usury."
"German","Fortune and women are partial to fools."
"German","He who lives by the church shall serve the church."
"German","Funeral sermon, lying sermon."
"German","Full vessels give the least sound."
"German","Friendship with the French is like their wine; exquisite but short lived."
"German","Friendship is love with intelligence."
"German","Friendship is a plant we must often water."
"German","Free man, free goods."
"German","Four eyes see more than two."
"German","Fortune is like women: loves youth and is fickle."
"German","Fortune is like women: loves youth and is fickle."
"German","For love the wolf eats the sheep."
"German","Fortune give many too much, but no one enough."
"German","For rich and poor alike the womb is equally warm."
"German","Fortune and misfortune are two buckets in the same well."
"German","Forgiven is not forgotten."
"German","Forgive thyself nothing and others much."
"German","Forgive and forget."
"German","Forever is a long bargain."
"German","Fore-talk spares after-talk."
"German","Forbidden fruit is sweet."
"German","Forbearance is no acquittance."
"German","For the upright there are no laws."
"German","Fancy requires much, necessity but little."
"German","Fortune gives her hand to a bold man."
"German","Every man thinks his copper is gold."
"German","Fear makes the wolf bigger than he is."
"German","Every one thinks that all the bells echo his own thoughts."
"German","Every one thinks his own a falcon."
"German","Every one must pay his debt to nature."
"German","Every one is wise after the event."
"German","Every one is glad to see a knave caught in his own trap."
"German","Every one is emperor on his own ground."
"German","Every one has his master."
"German","Every one counts for as much as he has."
"German","Every one basteth the fat hog, while the lean one burneth."
"German","Every woman would rather be handsome than good."
"German","Every man thinks his own geese swans."
"German","Everybody is the architect of his own fortune."
"German","Every man rides his own hobby."
"German","Every man is the best interpreter of his own words."
"German","Every man is dearest to himself."
"German","Every man for himself, and the Devil take the hindmost."
"German","Every man for himself, and God for us all."
"German","Every lion has to defend himself against flies."
"German","Every light is not the sun."
"German","Every land has its own law."
"German","Every labourer is worthy of his hire."
"German","Every herring must hang by its own gill."
"German","Every mother's child is handsome."
"German","Everything would be well were there not a ""but""."
"German","Give unto the king what is the king's, and unto God what is God's."
"German","Fair words don't fill the pocket."
"German","Fair hair may hae foul roots."
"German","Fair flowers to not remain long by the wayside."
"German","Fair flowers do not remain long by the wayside."
"German","Fair flowers are not left standing along the wayside long."
"German","Faint heart never won fair lady."
"German","Eyes trust themselves, ears trust others."
"German","Experience is the teacher of jesters and the intelligence of the wise."
"German","Experience is the best teacher."
"German","Every priestling conceals a popeling."
"German","Except for the night, we could never know the stars."
"German","Fat hens lay few eggs."
"German","Everyone's companion is no one's friend."
"German","Everyone wipes his feet on poverty."
"German","Everybody's friend, everybody's fool."
"German","Everybody's companion is nobody's friend."
"German","Everybody's busy is nobody's business."
"German","Everybody thinks his own cuckoo sings better than another's nightingale."
"German","Everybody says it, nobody knows it."
"German","Everybody must wear out one pair of fool's shoes, if he wear no more."
"German","Everybody knows good counsel except him who has need of it."
"German","Everybody knows best where his own shoe pinches."
"German","Exchange is no robbery."
"German","When David grew old he sang pious psalms."
"German","Where God builds a church, the devil builds a chapel."
"German","When a thing is done, make the best of it."
"German","When Adam delved, and Eve span, where was then the gentleman?"
"German","When all candles be out, all cats be gray."
"German","When all fruit fails, welcome haws."
"German","When all men say you are an ass, it is high time to bray."
"German","When an old dog barks, look out."
"German","When an old man marries, death laughs."
"German","When a man is down, everybody runs over him."
"German","When Christ was along, the devil tempted him."
"German","When a dove begins to fly with crows, its feathers remain white but its heart grows black."
"German","When fortune knocks, open the door."
"German","When friendship goes with love it must play the second fiddle."
"German","When God gives hard bread he gives sharp teeth."
"German","When God means to punish a nation, He deprives its rulers of wisdom."
"German","When God says ""today,"" the devil says ""tomorrow."""
"German","When God says To-day, the devil says To-morrow."
"German","When I eat your bread, I sing your song."
"German","When I rest, I rust."
"German","When blind leads the blind, both fall into the ditch."
"German","What's sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander."
"German","What three know will soon be known to thirty."
"German","What we want in hay we make up in straw."
"German","What you do, do quickly."
"German","What you give, is written in sand; what you take, with an iron hand."
"German","What you have, hold."
"German","What you lend to a friend, an enemy sues for."
"German","What you lose on the swings you gain on the roundabouts."
"German","What! keep a dog and bark myself?"
"German","When a man is rich, he begins to save."
"German","What's one man's meat's another man's poison."
"German","When money is talking, the rest of the world shuts up."
"German","What's sport to you is death to us."
"German","What's the good of a sun-dial in the shade?"
"German","What's the use of putting honey in an ass's mouth."
"German","Whatever is given to the poor, is laid out of the reach of fortune."
"German","Whatever is to be a hook, bends early."
"German","Whatever is to be a nettle, burns early."
"German","Whatever you save is also earned."
"German","When a dove begins to associate with crows its feathers remain white but its heart grows black."
"German","What's of no use is too dear at a gift."
"German","When wealth is lost, nothing is lost. when health is lost, something is lost; when character is lost, all is lost. ."
"German","When the pear is ripe, it falls."
"German","When the root is worthless, so is the tree."
"German","When the sack is full, it pricks up its ears."
"German","When the sow is satisfied she throws the trough away."
"German","When the tale of bricks is doubled, then comes Moses."
"German","When the thief is seen stealing, he says he is joking; but when the thief is not seen, he steals."
"German","When the wine runs to waste in the cellar, he mends the cask."
"German","When the word is out, it belongs to another."
"German","When it blows, the trees shake."
"German","When two dogs fight for a bone, and the third runs off with it, there's a lawyer among the dogs."
"German","When the jest is at its best, 'twill be well to let it rest."
"German","When you sweep stairs, start at the top."
"German","When you sweep the stairs, you start at the top."
"German","Whenever women say good-bye they always hang around for a while."
"German","Where all adulterers to wear grey coats, the cloth would be dear."
"German","Where every one goes, the grass never grows."
"German","Where friends, there riches."
"German","Where ghosts walk, there is loving or thieving."
"German","Turn yourself into a sheep and the wolves will eat you."
"German","When there is no enemy it is safe to fight."
"German","When the cat's away the mice will play."
"German","What the lion cannot manage to do the fox can."
"German","When need is greatest, God is nearest."
"German","When need is greatest, help is nearest."
"German","When old horses get warm, they are not easily held in."
"German","When one goose drinks, all drink."
"German","When poverty comes in at the door, love flies out at the window."
"German","When shepherds quarrel, the wolf has a winning game."
"German","When silent men speak they speak to the purpose."
"German","When the measure is full, it runs over."
"German","When the calf is stolen, the peasant mends the stall."
"German","When the lords come out of the council-house, they are wiser than when they went in."
"German","When the devil reigns today God will be master tomorrow."
"German","When the dog is awake, the shepherd may sleep."
"German","When the fox preaches, look to your geese."
"German","When the fox wants to catch geese, he wags his tail."
"German","When the giver comes, the gate opens by itself."
"German","When the guest is in most favour, he will do well to quit."
"German","When the hen had laid an egg she cackles."
"German","When the horse dies, dismount."
"German","When misfortune comes in at the door, love flies out of the window."
"German","When sorrow is asleep wake it not."
"German","We knock in jest, and it is opened in earnest."
"German","Watching women is labour in vain."
"German","Water is the strongest drink; it drives mills."
"German","Water quenches the thirst but does not teach you how to sing."
"German","We beat the sack and mean the miller."
"German","We cannot all be Pope of Rome."
"German","We cannot direct the wind, but we can adjust the sails."
"German","We do in haste what we repent at leisure."
"German","We do not walk on our legs, but on our will."
"German","Were a woman rules the house, the devil is serving-man."
"German","We hang little thieves, and take off our hats to great ones."
"German","Wake not a sleeping dog."
"German","We know what we have, but not what we shall get."
"German","We must eat and drink though every tree were a gallows."
"German","Weapons, women, and locks must be guarded at all times."
"German","Weeds never die."
"German","Weeds want no sowing."
"German","Weeping bride, laughing wife, laughing bride, weeping wife."
"German","Well begun is half done."
"German","What the peacock has too little on his head, he has too much on his tail."
"German","We give to the rich, and take from the poor."
"German","Unlaid eggs are uncertain chickens."
"German","Two cats and one mouse, two women in one house, two dogs to one bone, will not agree long."
"German","Two dogs over one bone seldom agree."
"German","Two eyes, two ears, only one mouth."
"German","Two hard flints never grind well."
"German","Two in distress makes sorrow the less."
"German","Two is an army against one."
"German","Two is company, but three is none."
"German","Two is company, but three's a crowd."
"German","War is pleasant to those who have not tried it."
"German","Unlaid eggs are a long time becoming chickens."
"German","Walls have ears."
"German","Unlooked-for often comes."
"German","Vice often rides triumphantly in the coach of virtue."
"German","Victory is not gained by idleness."
"German","Virtue flourishes in misfortune."
"German","Virtue never dies."
"German","Virtue subdues power."
"German","Virtue would not go far, if a little vanity walked not with it."
"German","Wait, is a hard word to the hungry."
"German","Were he to throw a groat on the roof, it would come down a dollar."
"German","Undeserved praise is mockery disguised."
"German","What ripens fast does not last."
"German","What is the use of running when we are not on the right road?"
"German","What is too high, that let fly."
"German","What little Hans didn't learn, big Hans doesn't know."
"German","What little Jack does not learn, big John will never."
"German","What man has made, man can destroy."
"German","What Manchester says today, the rest of England says tomorrow."
"German","What Master Jacky does not learn, Mr. John never knows."
"German","What one does not bake, another brews."
"German","Well-done outlives death."
"German","What one knows it is useful sometimes to forget."
"German","What is right for the one is reasonable for the other."
"German","What should a cow do with a nutmeg?"
"German","What signifies the barking of a dog that don't bite?"
"German","What smarts teaches."
"German","What soberness conceals, drunkenness reveals."
"German","What the eye sees not the heart rues not."
"German","What the eyes see, the heart believes."
"German","What the farmer does not know he doesn't eat."
"German","Where God gives hard bread He also gives sharp teeth."
"German","What one is accustomed to in youth, one does in old age."
"German","What goes around, comes around."
"German","Were I a hatter, men would come into the world without heads."
"German","Were there no fools, there would be no wise men."
"German","What belongs to the ravens is never drowned."
"German","What bird so white as mine? says the crow."
"German","What blossoms beautifully, withers fast."
"German","What can't be cured, must be endured."
"German","What comes from the heart, goes to the heart."
"German","What comes seldom, comes sharp."
"German","What is sport to the cat is death to the mouse."
"German","What God haith joined together, let no man put asunder."
"German","What is said is said, and no sponge can wipe it out."
"German","What goes down usually comes up."
"German","What goes up must come down."
"German","What good is it to run when you are on the wrong road?"
"German","What greater crime than loss of time?"
"German","What grows makes no noise."
"German","What harm is there in a good word? It costs nothing."
"German","What is no sin, is no shame."
"German","What is not taken by the Church is taken by the Exchequer."
"German","What the lion cannot, the fox can."
"German","What does the moon care if the dogs bay at her?"
"German","Women and fishes are best in the middle."
"German","Where God bestows an office, he provides brains to fill it."
"German","With great men one must allow five to be an even number."
"German","With houses and gold, men are rarely bold."
"German","With nice appearance people want to be deceived."
"German","With one foot in the grave."
"German","With patience and time the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown."
"German","With someone holding nothing but trumps it is impossible to play cards."
"German","Without knowledge, without sin."
"German","Wine makes secrets float to the surface."
"German","Woman's beauty, the forest echo, and rainbows, soon pass away."
"German","Wine and women make fools of everybody."
"German","Women and maidens must be praised, whether truly or falsely."
"German","Women and wine, game and deceit, Make the wealth small and the wants great."
"German","Women are as fickle as April weather."
"German","Women are as wavering as the wind."
"German","Women are necessary evils."
"German","Women are never at a loss for words."
"German","Women are watches that keep bad time."
"German","Women only keep quiet about their age."
"German","Wolves never gossip about each other."
"German","Who's the man that was never fooled by a woman."
"German","Who takes the child by the hand takes the mother by the heart."
"German","Who talks a lot at the table will leave it hungry."
"German","Who the daughter would win, with mamma must begin."
"German","Who threatens, warns."
"German","Who throws a stone above him may have it fall on his own head."
"German","Who will not feed the cats, must feed the mice and rats."
"German","Who would be rich, must keep his soul under cover of his cash-box."
"German","Who would be young in age, must in youth be sage."
"German","Wine upon beer is very good cheer; beer upon wine consider with fear."
"German","Who would wish to be valued must make himself scarce."
"German","Woo the widow whilst she is in weeds."
"German","Whoever cares to learn will always find a teacher."
"German","Whoever has bitten a sour apple will enjoy a sweet one all the more."
"German","Whoever invented work must not have had anything to do."
"German","Whom fortune favours, the world favours."
"German","Whore or thief young or old, welcome so you've got the gold."
"German","Whose bread I eat, his song I sing."
"German","Whose bread I eat: his song I sing."
"German","Windmills are not driven by bellows."
"German","Who would win, must learn to bear."
"German","Young drinkers, old beggars."
"German","You can't direct the wind, but you can adjust your sails."
"German","You cannot hang a man for what he thinks."
"German","You cannot hang a man twice."
"German","You cannot make a sieve of an ass's tail."
"German","You cannot make a silk purse of a sow's ear."
"German","You catch the mice with bacon."
"German","You don't need a teacher of wickedness."
"German","You have to take it as it happens, but you should try to make it happen the way you want to take it."
"German","Women prefer to be beautiful rather than good."
"German","Young angel, old devil."
"German","You are still a slave if only your limbs are free."
"German","Young gambler, old beggar."
"German","Young gamblers, old beggars."
"German","Young men may die, but old men must die."
"German","Young saint, old devil."
"German","Young soldiers, old beggars."
"German","Your friend's enemy might be your best friend."
"German","Youth and white paper take any impression."
"German","The bachelor is a peacock, the engaged man a lion, and the married man a jackass."
"German","You have to take life as it happens, but you should try to make it happen the way you want to take it."
"German","Work makes free."
"German","Who stands bail for someone is being teased by the devil."
"German","Woods have ears, fields have eyes."
"German","Words are dwarfs, but examples are giants."
"German","Words are good, but fowls lay eggs."
"German","Words are good, when works follow."
"German","Words are like bees, they have honey and a sting."
"German","Words don't will the sack."
"German","Words of snow, which fell last year."
"German","You can eat and drink with your family but not count and measure."
"German","Work is our business; it's success is God s."
"German","You can do anything with children if you only play with them."
"German","Work paid for in advance has feet of lead."
"German","Working on the land is better than praying in the desert."
"German","Workmen are easier found than masters."
"German","Would you be strong, conquer yourself."
"German","Would you live long, be healthy and fat, drink like a dog and eat like a cat."
"German","Write on one of the devil's horns, ""Good angel,"" and many will believe it."
"German","Yielding stays war."
"German","Yorkshire born and Yorkshire bred, strong in the arm and weak in the head."
"German","Women, fortune, and gold, favour fools."
"German","Words often do more than blows."
"German","Wherever there is mischief, there is sure to be a priest and a woman in it."
"German","Where there's no jealousy, there's no love."
"German","Where there's no love, all faults are seen."
"German","Where there's no love, there's no honour."
"German","Where two fall out, the third wins."
"German","Where water has been, water will come again."
"German","Where wine goes in, modesty goes out."
"German","Where you are not -- there is happiness."
"German","Where'er an ass is crown'd to fame, both town and country bear the shame."
"German","Who begins too much, accomplishes little."
"German","Wherever there is a pretty spot, the devil plants a monastery or a lord."
"German","Where there no fools, there would be no wise men."
"German","While the grass grows, the steed starves."
"German","While the pot boils, friendship blooms."
"German","Who accepts from another sells his freedom."
"German","Who accepts nothing has nothing to return."
"German","Who are ready to believe, are easy to deceive."
"German","Who avoids small sins, does not fall into great ones."
"German","Who bathes his hands in blood will have to wash them with tears."
"German","Who takes an eel by the tail or a woman by her word, grasp as he will, holds nothing fast."
"German","Wherever the ram goes the sheep will follow."
"German","Where the devil can't go himself, he sends an old woman."
"German","Where gold avails, argument fails."
"German","Where gold chinks, arguments are of no avail."
"German","Where honour ceaseth, there knowledge decreaseth."
"German","Where honour grows a span, folly grows an ell."
"German","Where might is right, right is not might."
"German","Where might is the master, justice is the servant."
"German","Where money, there friends."
"German","Where Nature stops folly begins."
"German","Where there's muck there's brass."
"German","Where the best wine grows, the worst is drunk."
"German","Where there's money, there is the devil; but where there's none, a greater evil."
"German","Where the hedge is lowest, the devil leaps over."
"German","Where the lion's skin falls short, borrow of the fox."
"German","Where there are no swamps there are no frogs."
"German","Where there are too many workmen, there is little work."
"German","Where there is no jealousy there is no love."
"German","Where there is nothing, the Emperor loses his right."
"German","Where there is shame, there is virtue."
"German","Where there is smoke there is fire."
"German","Who bows to might loses his right."
"German","Where philosophy ends medicine begins."
"German","Who readily borrows, readily lies."
"German","Who is not ashamed of his sins, sins double."
"German","Who is over nice, loses many a slice."
"German","Who knows nothing in his thirtieth year, is nothing in his fortieth, has nothing in his fiftieth; learns nothing, is nothing, and comes to nothing."
"German","Who lends his lips to nought but blame, has in his heart no love of fame."
"German","Who lets another sit on his shoulder, will soon have him on his head."
"German","Who loves his work and knows to spare, may live and flourish anywhere."
"German","Who loves ugliness will not encounter beauty."
"German","Who makes no promises, has none to perform."
"German","Who begins amiss ends amiss."
"German","Who neither believes heaven or hell, the devil heartily wishes him well."
"German","Who hunts two hares together catches neither."
"German","Who receives, should thank; who gives, should be silent."
"German","Who refuses to submit to justice, must not complain of oppression."
"German","Who rides slow, must saddle betimes."
"German","Who says little has little to answer for."
"German","Who seeks adventures finds blows."
"German","Who so deaf as he that will not hear."
"German","Who speaks ill of others to you will speak ill of you to others."
"German","Who loves not women, wine, and song, remains a fool his whole life long."
"German","Who mocks his chains will not be free."
"German","Who falls short in the head, must be long in the heels."
"German","Who cannot fight, wins nought by right."
"German","Who cannot sing, may whistle."
"German","Who carries doubtful people to his house, will doubtless from his carriage something lose."
"German","Who comes first, grinds first."
"German","Who comes unbidden departs unthanked."
"German","Who deceives me once, shame on him; if he deceive me twice, shame on me."
"German","Who demands justice, must administer justice."
"German","Who digs a pit for others will fall in themselves."
"German","Who is not ashamed doubles his sins."
"German","Who does nothing can do nothing wrong."
"German","Who is ell seated should not budge."
"German","Who has a head won't want for a hat."
"German","Who has a mouth, let him not say to another, ""Blow!"""
"German","Who has never tasted what is bitter does not know what is sweet."
"German","Who has tasted a sour apple, will have the more relish for a sweet one."
"German","Who has, let him thereof take heed; love wanes, misfortune comes with speed."
"German","Who heeds not little things, will be troubled about lesser ones."
"German","Who herds with wolves, must howl with wolves."
"German","Who honours not age, is unworthy of it."
"German","Who steals a calf, steals a cow."
"German","Who does not punish evil, invites it."
"German","The more noble, the more humble."
"German","The unrighteous penny consumes the righteous dollar."
"German","The miller's hen and widower's maid, of want need never be afraid."
"German","The mills of God grind slowly, yet they grind exceeding small."
"German","The misery is that you have to ruin your day with work."
"German","The monk responds as the abbot chants."
"German","The monk's habit is never so blessed that the devil can't hide in it."
"German","The more haste, the less speed."
"German","The more law, the less justice."
"German","The master's eye does more than both his hands."
"German","The more light a torch gives the shorter it lasts."
"German","The man in the moon stole the wood."
"German","The more shepherds there are, the worse the flocks are watched."
"German","The more the well is used, the more water it yields."
"German","The more you stir the mire, the more it stinks."
"German","The morning hour has gold in its mouth."
"German","The most beautiful roses grow on graves."
"German","The most disorderly students make the most pious preachers."
"German","The mountains make the mist and the valleys must consume them."
"German","The narrower the cage, the sweeter the liberty."
"German","The more laws the less justice."
"German","The king cannot rule as he wishes."
"German","The higher a monkey climbs, the more he shows his behind."
"German","The higher flood hath always the lower ebb."
"German","The higher the ape climbs the more he shows his rump."
"German","The higher the bell is hung, the shriller it sounds."
"German","The higher the monkey goes the more he shows his tail."
"German","The horse is not judged of by the saddle."
"German","The horse that draws best is the most whipped."
"German","The Hungarian is far too lazy to be bored."
"German","The middle path is the safe path."
"German","The key that is used grows bright."
"German","The nearer the inn, the longer the road."
"German","The king of the dreamers lies in the hospital."
"German","The king's chaff is better than other folk's corn."
"German","The bailiff's cow and another's cow are two different cows."
"German","The last shuts the door."
"German","The last stole the sack."
"German","The late comer is ill lodged."
"German","The later the evening, the fairer the company."
"German","The laugh is always on the loser."
"German","The husband's mother is the wife's devil."
"German","The sun will shine into our yard too."
"German","The road to ruin is paved with good intentions."
"German","The Russian knows the way, yet he asks for directions."
"German","The salary of a good servant is never too high."
"German","The sick man is vexed with the flies on the wall."
"German","The silent dog is the first to bite."
"German","The skinnier the dog, the more fleas he has."
"German","The stomach is easier filled than the eye."
"German","The strong man's sport is the sickly man's death."
"German","The nearer the bone, the sweeter the flesh."
"German","The sun will bring to light what lay under the snow."
"German","The priest loves his flock, but the lambs more than the wethers."
"German","The sun-dial counts only the bright hours."
"German","The sweetest grapes hang highest."
"German","The sweetest wine makes the sharpest vinegar."
"German","The thief cannot find any tree that suits him for a gallows."
"German","The treason is loved, the traitor hated."
"German","The tree must be bent while it is young."
"German","The unbidden guest is ever a pest."
"German","The unexpected always happens."
"German","The stubborn man is ruled by a fool."
"German","The people's voice is God's voice."
"German","The hasty man was never a traitor."
"German","The nearest the dearest."
"German","The office teaches the man."
"German","The old forget, the young don't know."
"German","The older a fool, the worse he is."
"German","The oldest trees bear the softest fruits."
"German","The oldest trees often bear the sweetest fruit."
"German","The one who wins plays best."
"German","The rich have medicines the poor have health."
"German","The only real equality is in the cemetery."
"German","The repeated stroke will fell the oak."
"German","The people's voice, God's voice."
"German","The person who has no enemies also has no friends."
"German","The person who has no opinion will seldom be wrong."
"German","The pitcher goes so often to the well, that it gets broken at last."
"German","The poor must dance as the rich pipe."
"German","The pope eats peasants, gulps gentlemen, and voids monks."
"German","The praise of a thousand jesters counts for nothing against the reprimand of one wise man."
"German","The preacher must be like a chicken who always has an egg in reserve."
"German","The nearer the church the farther from God."
"German","The one-eyed is a king among the blind."
"German","The cow does not lick a strange calf."
"German","The bridge between joy and sorrow is not long. Confidence begets confidence."
"German","The cat loves fish, but is loth to wet her feet."
"German","The cat's play is the mouse's death."
"German","The cats that drive away mice are as food as those that catch them."
"German","The chamois climbs high and yet is caught."
"German","The chickens don't mourn when the poulterer dies."
"German","The cock is a lord on his own dunghill."
"German","The cock is king on his own dunghill."
"German","The devil is in the details."
"German","The concealer is as bad as the thief."
"German","The biggest fools are those who are paid to be wise."
"German","The cow gives milk through her mouth."
"German","The cow licks no strange calf."
"German","The cows that low most give the least milk."
"German","The debts go to the next heir."
"German","The devil catches most souls in a golden net."
"German","The devil dances in an empty pocket."
"German","The devil finds work for idle hands to do."
"German","The hen likes to lay in a nest where there are eggs already."
"German","The cock shuts his eyes when he crows, because he knows it by heart."
"German","The best brewer sometimes makes bad beer."
"German","Who makes his bed on the morrow; goes all day without sorrow."
"German","Truth's best ornament is nakedness."
"German","The bait tastes first the fish."
"German","The beadle's cow may graze in the churchyard."
"German","The beggar's bag is bottomless."
"German","The beginning hot, the middle lukewarm, the end cold."
"German","The belly does not have a conscience."
"German","The belly has no conscience."
"German","The bridge between joy and sorrow is not long. Confidence begets confidence."
"German","The best answer to anger is silence."
"German","The bites of priests and wolves are hard to heal."
"German","The best friends are in one's purse."
"German","The best go first, the bad remain to mend."
"German","The best is the cheapest."
"German","The best is the enemy of the good."
"German","The best is what one has in his hand."
"German","The best of the mill is that the sacks can't speak."
"German","The best way to learn to ride is on an old bike."
"German","The better the fruit, the more wasps to eat it."
"German","The devil is never so black as he is painted."
"German","The belly is a bad adviser."
"German","The furthest way about is the nearest way home."
"German","The fat is in the fire."
"German","The fatter the flea, the leaner the dog."
"German","The fault of another is a good teacher."
"German","The fewer the words, the better the prayer."
"German","The fingers of the housewife do more than a yoke of oxen."
"German","The fish lead a pleasant life, they drink when they like."
"German","The fox changes his skin, but keeps the rogue."
"German","The fox does not prey near his hole."
"German","The devil is civil when he is flattered."
"German","The fun is in the search, not the finding."
"German","The fairer the hostess, the heavier the reckoning."
"German","The gold of the new world has ruined the old one."
"German","The greatest conqueror is he who conquers himself."
"German","The greatest step is out of doors."
"German","The greatest step is out the door."
"German","The greatest things are done by the help of small ones."
"German","The greatest wealth is contentment with a little."
"German","The handsomest snuffs the candle."
"German","The older, the colder; the more avaricious, the more vicious."
"German","The fuller the cask, the duller its sound."
"German","The drunken mouth reveals the heart's secrets."
"German","The devil likes to souse what is already wet."
"German","The devil looks after his own."
"German","The devil lurks behind the cross."
"German","The devil makes his Christmas pies of lawyers' tongues and clerk's fingers."
"German","The devil makes work for idle hands."
"German","The dog does not get bread every time he wags his tail."
"German","The dog rages at the stone, not at him that throws it."
"German","The dog returns to its vomit."
"German","The fast faggot is not easily broken."
"German","The dogs bite the last."
"German","The farthest way about is the nearest way home."
"German","The eagle does not catch flies."
"German","The egg will be more knowing than the hen."
"German","The empty waggon must make room for the full one."
"German","The end of wrath is the beginning of repentance."
"German","The executioner is a keen shaver."
"German","The eye is bigger than the belly."
"German","The eye is never satiated with seeing."
"German","The eyes believe themselves; the ears believe other people."
"German","The heaviest baggage for a traveller is an empty purse."
"German","The dog that starts the hare is as good as the one that catches it."
"German","To change and to improve are two different things."
"German","To act in anger is like tying up a ship in a storm."
"German","To advise is easier than to help."
"German","To advise is not to compel."
"German","To believe everything is too much, to believe nothing is not enough."
"German","To blame is easy, to do it better is difficult."
"German","To call war the soil of courage and virtue is like calling debauchery the soil of love."
"German","To catch rats the cats take off their gloves."
"German","To change and change for the better are two different things."
"German","Three, helping one another, bear the burden of six."
"German","To change and to do better are two different things."
"German","Tis too late to spare when the pocket is bare."
"German","To claim is not to prove."
"German","To criticize is easy, to do is difficult."
"German","The weeping bride makes a laughing wife."
"German","To get to know a friend, you must share an inheritance with him."
"German","The old one who is loved is like a winter flower."
"German","To good eating belongs good drinking."
"German","To know is easier than to do."
"German","To live long, eat like a cat, drink like a dog."
"German","To change and to change for the better are two different things."
"German","Time is anger's medicine."
"German","Thrift is a great revenue."
"German","Time and hour run through the roughest day."
"German","Time and opportunity are in no man's sleeve."
"German","Time and place make the thief."
"German","Time and tide wait for no man."
"German","Time betrays and hangs the thief."
"German","Time brings everything, to those who can wait for it."
"German","Time brings roses."
"German","To a quick ear half a word."
"German","Time covers and discovers everything."
"German","Tit for tat."
"German","Time is the best counsellor."
"German","Time is the best preacher."
"German","Time is the herald of truth."
"German","Time makes hay."
"German","Time, wine, women, and fortune, are ever changing."
"German","Times change and we with time."
"German","Timid dogs bark most."
"German","Tired oxen must tread hard."
"German","To spend much and gain little is the sure road to ruin."
"German","Time chases love away and love chases the time away."
"German","Truth gives a short answer, lies go round about."
"German","To question a wise man is the beginning of wisdom."
"German","True friendship does not freeze in the winter."
"German","Trueman's house stands the longest."
"German","Trust no one till you have eaten a bushel of salt with him."
"German","Trust well rides away with the horse."
"German","Trust, beware whom."
"German","Trust, but not too much."
"German","Trusting too much to others has been the ruin of many."
"German","Towards evening the lazy person begins to get busy."
"German","Truth finds no asylum."
"German","Too much wisdom is folly."
"German","Truth has a handsome countenance but torn garments."
"German","Truth ill-timed is as bad as a lie."
"German","Truth is for the ears what smoke is for the eyes and vinegar for the tongue."
"German","Truth is the daughter of time."
"German","Truth makes the tongue smart."
"German","Truth may be suppressed, but not strangled."
"German","Truth should not always be revealed."
"German","Truth that is poorly timed is as bad as a lie."
"German","Truth will out."
"German","Truth creeps not into corners."
"German","Too clever is stupid."
"German","To every one his own is not too much."
"German","To the looker-on no work is too hard."
"German","To-day for money, to-morrow for nothing."
"German","To-day in finery, to-morrow in filth."
"German","To-day must borrow nothing of to-morrows."
"German","To-day red, to-morrow dead."
"German","Today must not borrow from tomorrow."
"German","Today red, tomorrow dead."
"German","Trick against trick."
"German","Too clever is dumb."
"German","To remain young while growing old is the highest blessing."
"German","Too many cooks spoil the broth."
"German","Too many irons in the fire."
"German","Too many sacks are the death of the ass."
"German","Too much bed makes a dull head."
"German","Too much bursts the bag."
"German","Too much humility is pride."
"German","Too much is not enough."
"German","Too much luck is bad luck."
"German","Too much will soon break."
"German","Too aim is not enough, you must hit."
"German","There is no law but has a hole in it, for those who can find it out."
"German","There is nothing so bad but may be of some use."
"German","There are plenty of preachers who don't hear themselves."
"German","There come just as many calf-skins as cow-skins to market."
"German","There is always a Pharaoh who does not know Joseph."
"German","There is always room at the top."
"German","There is an exception to every rule."
"German","There is more disputing about the shell than the kernel."
"German","There is no eel so small but it hopes to become a whale."
"German","There are no bad beers; some kinds are better than others."
"German","There is no good in preaching to the hungry."
"German","There are more ways of killing a dog than choking it with butter."
"German","There is no little enemy."
"German","There is no nail varnish that can make old hands look younger."
"German","There is no occasion for priests to marry, while peasants have wives."
"German","There is no off switch on a tiger."
"German","There is no one luckier than he who thinks himself so."
"German","There is no saint so petty but claims his own candle."
"German","There is no stripping a naked man."
"German","There is nothing for which the boors pray so much to God as that the horses of the squirearchy may not die, for otherwise they would ride the boors with spurs."
"German","There is no fool like an old fool."
"German","The world likes to have night-owls, that it may have matter for wonder."
"German","The will gives the work its name."
"German","The will is the soul of the work."
"German","The wind does not always blow from the same quarter."
"German","The wind keeps not always in one quarter."
"German","To give quickly is to give doubly."
"German","The wise man has long ears and a short tongue."
"German","Three women, three geese, and three frogs, make a fair."
"German","The wood has ears, the field has eyes."
"German","There are only two good women in the world; the one is dead, the other not to be found."
"German","The world could have been great if only people had been more useful."
"German","The wise person has long ears and a short tongue."
"German","The worse the dun, the worst the paymaster."
"German","The worst behaved students turn out to be the most pious preachers."
"German","The worst wheel creaks most."
"German","The young may die, the old must die."
"German","There are many preachers who don't hear themselves."
"German","There are more hands than heads."
"German","There are more old tipplers than old doctors."
"German","There are more threatened than struck."
"German","The work praises the workman."
"German","Those who don't pick roses in summer won't pick them in winter either."
"German","They who deserve honour, fail of it; and they who obtain it, do not deserve it."
"German","They who eat cherries with the great, are like to have the stones and stalks flung in their face."
"German","They wrangle about an egg, and let the hens fly away."
"German","Thievery and lying are kissing cousins."
"German","Think with the wise but walk with the vulgar."
"German","Thirteen nuns, fourteen children."
"German","Those bosoms can be sold cheapest which are stolen ready made."
"German","Those in a high position can be seen from far away."
"German","They who come from afar are prone to lie."
"German","Those that will not hear must be made to feel."
"German","Thoughts are toll-free, but not hell-free."
"German","Those who love in the Lord never see each other for the last time."
"German","Those who tickle themselves may laugh when they please."
"German","Those who wade in unknown waters will be sure to be drowned."
"German","Though you seat the frog on a golden stool, he'll soon jump off again into the pool."
"German","Thought when sober, said when drunk."
"German","Thousands drink themselves to death before one dies of thirst."
"German","Three removals are as bad as a fire."
"German","There the hedge is lowest, men leap over."
"German","The wise drunkard is a sober fool."
"German","Those that rule must hear and be deaf, must see and be blind."
"German","There's cunning in a pointed chin."
"German","There's no making apples of plums."
"German","They quarrel about an egg and let the hen fly."
"German","There's no putting off a lie upon the belly."
"German","There's no eel so small but it hopes to become a whale."
"German","There's no rest for the wicked."
"German","Three things come into the house uninvited: debts, age, and death."
"German","There's none so blind as those who will not see."
"German","There's nothing new under the sun."
"German","There's one born every minute."
"German","There's seldom a cake but there's more of the make."
"German","They are not all cooks who carry long knives."
"German","They are not all friends who laugh with you."
"German","They are not all hunters who blow horns."
"German","They love the old that do not know the new."
"German","They must be strong legs that can support prosperous days."
"German","They must hunger in frost who spring-time have lost."
"German","They need much whom nothing will content."
"German","They play till they quarrel."
"German","There's nowt so queer as folk."
"German","Buying is cheaper than asking."
"German","Coffee and love are best when they are hot."
"German","Christians have no neighbours."
"German","Cheese is gold in the morning, silver at noon, and lead at night."
"German","Cheese and bread make the cheeks red."
"German","Cheerful company shortens the miles."
"German","Cheats never prosper."
"German","Cheating is the chapman's cart and plough."
"German","Cheating is more honourable than stealing."
"German","Charity gives itself rich, covetousness hoards itself poor."
"German","Care brings on grey hairs, and age without years."
"German","Bustle is not industry."
"German","Buyers want a hundred eyes, sellers only one."
"German","Buy when it is market time."
"German","Buyers want a hundred eyes, sellers none."
"German","Curiosity killed the cat."
"German","Buy your neighbour's ox, and woo your neighbour's daughter."
"German","Deferred is not annulled."
"German","Cold hand, a warm heart."
"German","Care killed the cat."
"German","Count your blessings."
"German","Beginning and ending shake hands."
"German","Business before pleasure."
"German","Debtors are liars."
"German","Dear physic always does good, if not to the patient, at least to the apothecary."
"German","Daughters are easy to rear, but hard to marry."
"German","Daughter-in-law hates mother-in-law."
"German","Cunning surpasses strength."
"German","Crazy wheels run longest."
"German","Credit is better than ready money."
"German","Cowards have no luck."
"German","Cold hands, warm heart."
"German","Count not your chickens before they are hatched."
"German","Councils of war never fight."
"German","Could everything be done twice, everything would be done better."
"German","Consult with your pillow."
"German","Constant occupation prevents temptation."
"German","Constant dropping wears the stone."
"German","Confidence begets confidence."
"German","Compliments cost nothing, yet many pay dear for them."
"German","Common fame is seldom to blame."
"German","Cowards may die many times before their death."
"German","Better a patch than a hole."
"German","Better one living word than a hundred dead ones."
"German","Better is better."
"German","Better is an enemy to good."
"German","Better give nothing than stolen alms."
"German","Better free in a foreign land than a serf at home."
"German","Better envy than pity."
"German","Better badly mounted than proud on foot."
"German","Better ask twice than go wrong once."
"German","Better a good cow than a cow of a good kind."
"German","Better an honest enemy than a false friend."
"German","Better, There he goes, than There he hangs."
"German","Better a living dog than a dead lion."
"German","Better a lean peace than a fat victory."
"German","Better a lean agreement than a fat lawsuit."
"German","Devils must be driven out with devils."
"German","Begun is half done."
"German","Empty casks make the most sound."
"German","Begin to weave and God will give the thread."
"German","Beauty is a good letter of introduction."
"German","Better an unjust peace than a just war."
"German","Birds of prey do not sing."
"German","Build golden bridges for the flying foe."
"German","Bread in one hand, a stone in the other."
"German","Boys avoid the bees that stung 'em."
"German","Bought wit is best."
"German","Bought wisdom is best."
"German","Both legs in the stocks or only one, 'tis all the same."
"German","Borrowing does well only once."
"German","Black cows give white milk."
"German","Better something than nothing at all."
"German","Bitter pills are gilded."
"German","Better to go to bed supperless than run in debt."
"German","Big churches, little saints."
"German","Beware of men who flourish hereditary honors."
"German","Betwixt two stools the doup fas down."
"German","Between wrangling and disputing truth is lost."
"German","Between wording and working is a long road."
"German","Between the hand and the lip the soup may be spilt."
"German","Between neighbours' gardens a hedge is not amiss."
"German","Between a woman's ""Yes"" and ""No"" there is no room for the point of a needle."
"German","Building castles in the air."
"German","Bitter pills may have wholesome effects."
"German","Every hare may pluck the dead lion's mane."
"German","Envy envies itself."
"German","Every man rides his own hobby."
"German","Every man is the best interpreter of his own words."
"German","Every man is dearest to himself."
"German","Every man for himself, and the Devil take the hindmost."
"German","Every man for himself, and God for us all."
"German","Every light is not the sun."
"German","Every land has its own law."
"German","Every one counts for as much as he has."
"German","Every herring must hang by its own gill."
"German","Every one has his master."
"German","Every fool is different."
"German","Every cock crows best on his own dunghill."
"German","Every clown can find fault, though it would puzzle him to do better."
"German","Every beginning is hard, said the thief, when he began by stealing an anvil."
"German","Ever one hair, only one, and the man is bald at last."
"German","Even the lion must defend himself against the flies."
"German","Even the best hack stumbles once."
"German","Even a hair casts its shadow."
"German","Early to rise and late to bed, lifts again the debtor's head."
"German","Every labourer is worthy of his hire."
"German","Everybody knows best where his own shoe pinches."
"German","Fair flowers to not remain long by the wayside."
"German","Exchange is no robbery."
"German","Except for the night, we could never know the stars."
"German","Everything would be well were there not a ""but."""
"German","Everybody's friend, everybody's fool."
"German","Everybody's companion is nobody's friend."
"German","Everybody's busy is nobody's business."
"German","Everybody thinks his own cuckoo sings better than another's nightingale."
"German","Every one basteth the fat hog, while the lean one burneth."
"German","Everybody knows good counsel except him who has need of it."
"German","Envy eats nothing but its own heart."
"German","Everybody is the architect oh is own fortune."
"German","Every woman would rather be handsome than good."
"German","Every priestling conceals a popeling."
"German","Every one thinks that all the bells echo his own thoughts."
"German","Every one thinks his own a falcon."
"German","Every one must pay his debt to nature."
"German","Every one is wise after the event."
"German","Every one is glad to see a knave caught in his own trap."
"German","Every one is emperor on his own ground."
"German","Everybody must wear out one pair of fool's shoes, if he wear no more."
"German","Doing nothing teaches doing ill."
"German","Erring is not cheating."
"German","Don't cry hurra! till your are over the hedge (till you are out of the wood)."
"German","Don't cry fish before they're caught."
"German","Don't cry before you're hurt."
"German","Don't cry before you are hurt."
"German","Don't change horses in midstream."
"German","Don't change horses in mid stream."
"German","Don't cast your pearls before swine."
"German","Don't fly till your wings are feathered."
"German","Don't budge, if you sit at ease."
"German","Don't get mad, get even."
"German","Doing nothing is doing ill."
"German","Dogs that bark much don't bite."
"German","Doctor Luther's shoes do not fit every parish priest."
"German","Do what thou doest. (Age quod agis.)"
"German","Do not ship all in one bottom."
"German","Do not divide the spoil till the victory is won."
"German","Do not despise an insignificant enemy, nor a slight wound."
"German","Distance lends enchantment to the view."
"German","Dissemblers oftener deceive themselves than others."
"German","Don't carry your head too high, the door is low."
"German","Drive not a second nail till the first be clinched."
"German","Entreat him in jackass fashion; if he won't carry the sack, give him a whack."
"German","Enough is better than a sackful."
"German","Art holds fast when all else is lost."
"German","Eating and drinking holds body and soul together."
"German","Bear and bull catch no fox."
"German","Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise."
"German","Early marriage, long love."
"German","Dumb dogs and still water are dangerous."
"German","Don't divide the spoil before the victory is won."
"German","Ducats are clipped, pence are not."
"German","Disputing and borrowing cause grief and sorrowing."
"German","Drive gently over the stones."
"German","Drive a rat into a corner, and he'll jump at you."
"German","Drinking a little too much is drinking a great deal too much."
"German","Drink upon salad costs the doctor a ducat; drink upon eggs costs him two."
"German","Dreams are froth."
"German","Don't throw away your dirty water till you have got clean."
"German","Don't sell the bear-skin before you have killed the bear."
"German","Don't reckon without your host."
"German","Don't learn too much, Jack, else you must do a great deal."
"German","Ducks quack loudly before a rain."
"German","A loaded wagon creaks; an empty one rattles."
"German","A mistake is no fraud."
"German","A millstone gathers no moss."
"German","A man, a word; a word, a man."
"German","A man warned is half saved."
"German","A man surprised is half beaten."
"German","A man shows his character by what he laughs at."
"German","A man has two ears and one mouth that he hear much and speak little."
"German","A man has learned much who has learned how to die."
"German","A huckster who cannot pass off mouse-turd for pepper, has not learned his trade."
"German","A lordly taste make a beggar's purse."
"German","A necessary lie is harmless."
"German","A load of March dust is worth a ducat."
"German","A light belly, heavy heart."
"German","A lean agreement is better than a fat lawsuit."
"German","A lawyer and a wagon-wheel must be well greased."
"German","A lawyer and a cart-wheel must be greased."
"German","A hundred years of wrong do not make an hour of right."
"German","A hundred years of regret pay not a farthing of debt."
"German","As a thing is used, so it brightens."
"German","A lovelorn cook oversalts the porridge."
"German","A sack full of fleas is easier to watch than a woman."
"German","A wise man, a strong man."
"German","A used plough shines, standing water stinks."
"German","A thing is not bad if well understood."
"German","A thief seldom grows rich by thieving."
"German","A tear bedews my Delia's eye, From morn till dewy eve; But if you ask the reason why, She can't tell, I believe."
"German","A teacher is better than two books."
"German","A sparrow in the hand is better than a pigeon on the roof."
"German","A small gift is better than a great promise."
"German","A monk in his cloister, a fish in the water, a thief in the gallows."
"German","A single penny fairly got, is worth a thousand that are not."
"German","A nail secures the horse-shoe, the shoe the horse, the horse the man, the man the castle, and the castle the whole land."
"German","A proverb never lies, it is only its meaning which deceives."
"German","A prophet is not without honor save in his own country."
"German","A promise is a debt."
"German","A poor person isn't he who has little, but he who needs a lot."
"German","A penny saved is two-pence got."
"German","A penny saved is a penny got."
"German","A penny saved is a penny gained."
"German","A pack of cards is the devil's prayer-book."
"German","A handful of might is better than a sack full of right."
"German","A single stroke don't fell the oak."
"German","A better seldom comes after."
"German","A close mouth and open eyes never did any one harm."
"German","A clean mouth and honest hand, will take a man through any land."
"German","A cat is a lion to mouse."
"German","A cat in gloves catches no mice."
"German","A cat has nine lives, as the onion seven skins."
"German","A bolt does not always fall when it thunders."
"German","A bold onset is half the battle."
"German","A bold does not always fall when it thunders."
"German","A hug a day keeps the demons at bay."
"German","A blind horse goes straightforward."
"German","A dainty stomach beggars the purse."
"German","A bashful dog never fattens."
"German","A bargain is a bargain."
"German","A baptised Jew is a circumcised Christian."
"German","A bad penny always turns up."
"German","A bad penny always comes back."
"German","A bad cause requires many words."
"German","A bad beginning may make a good ending."
"German","Fat hens lay few eggs."
"German","A blind leader of the blind."
"German","A fence lasts three years, a dog lasts three fences, a horse three dogs, and a man three horses."
"German","A gosling flew over the Rhine, and came home a goose."
"German","A good trade will carry farther than a thousand florins."
"German","A good speaker makes a good liar."
"German","A good name is a rich inheritance."
"German","A good meal is worth hanging for."
"German","A good conscience is a soft pillow."
"German","A glutton young, a beggar old."
"German","A flatterer has water in one hand and fire in the other."
"German","A close mouth catcheth no flies."
"German","A fence makes love more keen."
"German","A country can be judged by the quality of its proverbs."
"German","A father maintains ten children better than ten children one father."
"German","A drop of honey catches more flies than a hogshead of vinegar."
"German","A dripping June sets all in tune."
"German","A drink is shorter than a tale."
"German","A dram of discretion is worth a pound of wisdom."
"German","A doctor and a boor know more than a doctor alone."
"German","A day after the fair."
"German","A danger foreseen is half avoided."
"German","A woman's vengeance knows no bounds."
"German","A fish should swim thrice: in water, in sauce, and in wine."
"German","As good eat the devil as the broth he was boiled in."
"German","As the old cock crows so crows the young."
"German","As the old birds sings, the young ones twitter."
"German","As the mistress, so the maid."
"German","As the master, so the work."
"German","As the labour, so the pay."
"German","As the field, so the crops; as the father, so the sons."
"German","As soon a man is born he begins to die."
"German","As princes fiddle, subjects must dance."
"German","A woman keeps secret only what she does not know."
"German","As he thinketh in his heart, so is he."
"German","As the twig is bent, so is the tree inclined."
"German","As good be an addled egg as an idle bird."
"German","As fortune is sought, so it is found."
"German","As fast as laws are devised, their evasion is contrived."
"German","As a tree falls, so shall it lie."
"German","As a man eats, so he works."
"German","April weather, woman's love, rose-leaves, dice, and card-luck, change every moment."
"German","Appearances are deceptive."
"German","Apes remain apes, though you cloth them in velvet."
"German","As is the gardener, so is the garden."
"German","Bacchus hath drowned more men than Neptune."
"German","Be silent, or say something better than silence."
"German","Be not ashamed of your craft."
"German","Be as you would seem to be."
"German","Bargains are costly."
"German","Bad ware must be cried up."
"German","Bad tidings always come too soon."
"German","Bad money drives out good."
"German","Bad money always comes back."
"German","As the tree, so the fruit."
"German","Bad bird, bad egg."
"German","As the tree, so the fruit; as the mistress, so the maid."
"German","Away with you, be a peddlar, a knave, says the hangman to his man."
"German","Away from the battle all are soldiers."
"German","At evening the sluggard is busy."
"German","At court there are many hands, but few hearts."
"German","Asses that bray most eat least."
"German","Asses sing badly, because they pitch their voices too high."
"German","Assertion is no proof."
"German","As won, so spent."
"German","Anger hears no counsel."
"German","Bad eyes never see any good."
"German","Advice is not compulsion."
"German","Another man's horse and your own spurs outrun the wind."
"German","All are not asleep who have their eyes shut."
"German","Agree, for the law is costly."
"German","After dinner stand a while, or walk nearly half a mile."
"German","After clouds comes clear weather."
"German","After Christmas comes Lent."
"German","Affectation is a greater injury to the face than small-pox."
"German","Advising is often better than fighting."
"German","All are not free who mock their chains."
"German","Advice should precede the act."
"German","All goes down gutter lane."
"German","Adam must have an Eve, to blame for his own faults."
"German","Abundance begets indifference."
"German","Abroad to see wonders the traveller goes, And neglects the fine things which lie under his nose."
"German","Abroad one has a hundred eyes, at home not one."
"German","A young wife is an old man's post-horse to the grave."
"German","A young doctor means a new graveyard."
"German","A woman, a dog, and a walnut tree, the more you beat them the better they be."
"German","A woman's work is never done."
"German","Be the thing you would be called."
"German","Advising is easier than helping."
"German","Ambition and fleas both jump high."
"German","A woman strong in flounces is weak in the head."
"German","Anger can't stand, without a strong hand."
"German","An uneducated person is like an unpolished mirror."
"German","An ounce of mother-wit is worth a pound of school-wit."
"German","An old man loved is a winter with flowers."
"German","An old fox does not run twice into the snare."
"German","An old error is always more popular than a new truth."
"German","An old broom knows the corners of the house."
"German","All are not cooks who carry long knives."
"German","Amendment is repentance."
"German","Anger without power is folly."
"German","Always something new, seldom something good."
"German","Almost never killed a fly."
"German","All's fair in love and war."
"German","All your geese are swans."
"German","All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy."
"German","All wooers are rich, and all captives poor."
"German","All skill is in vain when an angel pees in the touchhole of your musket."
"German","All had rather it were well for themselves than for another."
"German","All good things must come to an end."
"German","An egg is an egg, said the beadle, but he took the goose-egg."
"German","The devil dances in an empty pocket."
"German","The dog that starts the hare is as good as the one that catches it."
"German","The dog returns to its vomit."
"German","The dog rages at the stone, not at him that throws it."
"German","The dog does not get bread every time he wags his tail."
"German","The devil looks after his own."
"German","The devil likes to souse what is already wet."
"German","The devil is never so black as he is painted."
"German","The devil is in the details."
"German","There is no eel so small but it hopes to become a whale."
"German","The devil finds work for idle hands to do."
"German","The empty waggon must make room for the full one."
"German","The devil catches most souls in a golden net."
"German","The debts go to the next heir."
"German","The cows that low most give the least milk."
"German","The cow licks no strange calf."
"German","The cow gives milk through her mouth."
"German","The concealer is as bad as the thief."
"German","The cock shuts his eyes when he crows, because he knows it by heart."
"German","The cock is king on his own dunghill."
"German","The devil is civil when he is flattered."
"German","The fat is in the fire."
"German","The greatest conqueror is he who conquers himself."
"German","The furthest way about is the nearest way home."
"German","The fun is in the search, not the finding."
"German","The fuller the cask, the duller its sound."
"German","The fox does not prey near his hole."
"German","The fox changes his skin, but keeps the rogue."
"German","The fish lead a pleasant life, they drink when they like."
"German","The fewer the words, the better the prayer."
"German","The dogs bite the last."
"German","The fatter the flea, the leaner the dog."
"German","The egg will be more knowing than the hen."
"German","The fast faggot is not easily broken."
"German","The farthest way about is the nearest way home."
"German","The fairer the hostess, the heavier the reckoning."
"German","The eyes believe themselves; the ears believe other people."
"German","The eye is never satiated with seeing."
"German","The eye is bigger than the belly."
"German","The executioner is a keen shaver."
"German","The end of wrath is the beginning of repentance."
"German","The cats that drive away mice are as food as those that catch them."
"German","The fault of another is a good teacher."
"German","Sue a beggar and catch a louse."
"German","The cock is a lord on his own dunghill."
"German","Take the world as it is, not as it ought to be."
"German","Take care of your plough, and your plough will take care of you."
"German","Take all you want; eat all you take."
"German","Sweet wine makes sour vinegar."
"German","Sweet song has betrayed many."
"German","Sweat makes good mortar."
"German","Summer sown corn and women's advice turn out once in every seven years."
"German","Talking is easier than doing, and promising than performing."
"German","Sue a beggar and get a louse."
"German","Talking is silver, silence is gold."
"German","Sudden trust brings sudden repentance."
"German","Sudden glory soon goes out."
"German","Such as the man is, such will be his discourse."
"German","Such a beginning, such an end."
"German","Success to you! God speed the craft! as the hangman said to the judge."
"German","Strong folks have strong maladies."
"German","Stretch yourself according to your cover-lid."
"German","Stretch your legs according to your coverlet."
"German","Straying shepherd, straying sheep."
"German","Suit yourself to the times."
"German","The ass carries corn to the mill, and gets thistles."
"German","The greatest wealth is contentment with a little."
"German","The bites of priests and wolves are hard to heal."
"German","The best is what one has in his hand."
"German","The best go first, the bad remain to mend."
"German","The best friends are in one's purse."
"German","The best answer to anger is silence."
"German","The belly is a bad adviser."
"German","The beginning hot, the middle lukewarm, the end cold."
"German","Talk of the devil, and his imp appears."
"German","The bailiff's cow and another's cow are two different cows."
"German","The chamois climbs high and yet is caught."
"German","The ass and his driver do not think alike."
"German","The anvil is used to noise."
"German","The anvil is not afraid of the hammer."
"German","That usury is a sin some hold, but take for granted they've no gold."
"German","That miller is honest who has hair on his teeth."
"German","That is not in the looking-glass which is seen in the looking-glass."
"German","Tell not all you know; believe not all you hear; do not all you are able."
"German","Tell no tales out of school."
"German","Tell a lie, and you'll hear the truth."
"German","The beggar's bag is bottomless."
"German","The sun-dial counts only the bright hours."
"German","The pope eats peasants, gulps gentlemen, and voids monks."
"German","The unrighteous penny corrupts the righteous pound."
"German","The unrighteous penny consumes the righteous dollar."
"German","The unexpected always happens."
"German","The unbidden guest is ever a pest."
"German","The tree must be bent while it is young."
"German","The treason is loved, the traitor hated."
"German","The thief cannot find any tree that suits him for a gallows."
"German","The will gives the work its name."
"German","The sweetest grapes hang highest."
"German","The will is the soul of the work."
"German","The sun will shine into our yard too."
"German","The sun will bring to light what lay under the snow."
"German","The strong man's sport is the sickly man's death."
"German","The stomach is easier filled than the eye."
"German","The sick man is vexed with the flies on the wall."
"German","The Russian knows the way, yet he asks for directions."
"German","The road to ruin is paved with good intentions."
"German","The repeated stroke will fell the oak."
"German","The greatest step is out of doors."
"German","The sweetest wine makes the sharpest vinegar."
"German","There are more old tipplers than old doctors."
"German","Old crows are hard to catch."
"German","There is an exception to every rule."
"German","There is always room at the top."
"German","There is always a Pharaoh who does not know Joseph."
"German","There come just as many calf-skins as cow-skins to market."
"German","There are only two good women in the world; the one is dead, the other not to be found."
"German","There are more ways of killing a dog than hanging it."
"German","There are more ways of killing a dog than choking it with butter."
"German","The weeping bride makes a laughing wife."
"German","There are more threatened than struck."
"German","The poor must dance as the rich pipe."
"German","There are more hands than heads."
"German","There are many preachers who don't hear themselves."
"German","The world likes to have night-owls, that it may have matter for wonder."
"German","The work praises the workman."
"German","The wood has ears, the field has eyes."
"German","The wise man has long ears and a short tongue."
"German","The wise drunkard is a sober fool."
"German","The wind keeps not always in one quarter."
"German","The wind does not always blow from the same quarter."
"German","There are more ways of killing a cat than choking it with cream."
"German","The horse that draws best is the most whipped."
"German","The priest loves his flock, but the lambs more than the wethers."
"German","The laugh is always on the loser."
"German","The later the evening, the fairer the company."
"German","The late comer is ill lodged."
"German","The last stole the sack."
"German","The last shuts the door."
"German","The king's chaff is better than other folk's corn."
"German","The king cannot rule as he wishes."
"German","The master's eye does more than both his hands."
"German","The husband's mother is the wife's devil."
"German","The middle path is the safe path."
"German","The horse is not judged of by the saddle."
"German","The higher the monkey goes the more he shows his tail."
"German","The higher the monkey climbs the more he shows his tail."
"German","The higher the bell is hung, the shriller it sounds."
"German","The higher flood hath always the lower ebb."
"German","The higher a monkey climbs, the more he shows his behind."
"German","The hen likes to lay in a nest where there are eggs already."
"German","The hasty man was never a traitor."
"German","Stagnant water grows stinking."
"German","The key that is used grows bright."
"German","The nearer the inn, the longer the road."
"German","The pitcher goes so often to the well, that it gets broken at last."
"German","The people's voice is God's voice."
"German","The only real equality is in the cemetery."
"German","The one-eyed is a king among the blind."
"German","The oldest trees often bear the sweetest fruit."
"German","The older, the colder; the more avaricious, the more vicious."
"German","The older a fool, the worse he is."
"German","The old forget, the young don't know."
"German","The man in the moon stole the wood."
"German","The nearest the dearest."
"German","The greatest things are done by the help of small ones."
"German","The narrower the cage, the sweeter the liberty."
"German","The most disorderly students make the most pious preachers."
"German","The more you stir the mire, the more it stinks."
"German","The more the well is used, the more water it yields."
"German","The more noble, the more humble."
"German","The more light a torch gives the shorter it lasts."
"German","The more law, the less justice."
"German","The mills of God grind slowly, yet they grind exceeding small."
"German","The miller's hen and widower's maid, of want need never be afraid."
"German","The office teaches the man."
"German","One wedge drives another."
"German","One must glean at harvest time."
"German","Paper is patient."
"German","Painted flowers are scentless."
"German","Ox, keep to your grass."
"German","Out of a little grass comes a great ass."
"German","Our neighbour's children are always the worst."
"German","Other towns, other lasses."
"German","Open hand makes open hand."
"German","Pay in like coin."
"German","One white foot, buy him; two white feet, try him; three white feet, look well about him; four white feet, go without him."
"German","Pay-day comes every day."
"German","One to-day is worth two to-morrows."
"German","One to-day is better than ten to-morrows."
"German","One sword keep another in the sheath."
"German","One story is good till another is told."
"German","One should be born either a king or a fool."
"German","One scabbed sheep will infect a whole flock."
"German","One rotten sheepe will marre a whole flocke."
"German","One rotten egg spoils the whole pudding."
"German","Presents keep friendship warm."
"German","Only one can be emperor."
"German","Plants oft removed never thrive."
"German","Standing pools gather filth."
"German","Praise a fine day at night."
"German","Poverty is the sixth sense."
"German","Poverty is cunning; it catches even a fox."
"German","Poverty craves many things, but avarice more."
"German","Poverty and hunger have many learned disciples."
"German","Poor people's words go many to a sackful."
"German","Politeness travels on short fares."
"German","Pardoning the bad is injuring the good."
"German","Play not with a man till you hurt him, nor jest till you shame him."
"German","One may see through a wall, if there's a hole in it."
"German","Places are God's; placemen are the devil's."
"German","Pills must be bolted, not chewed."
"German","Pilgrims seldom come home saints."
"German","Piety, prudence, wit, and civility, are the elements of true nobility."
"German","People show their character by what they laugh at."
"German","People often change and seldom for the better."
"German","Penny is penny's brother."
"German","Pearls of wisdom."
"German","Peacock, look at your legs."
"German","Politeness is what warmth is to wax."
"German","Once upon a time, no time."
"German","One must plough with the horses he has."
"German","One cannot love and be wise."
"German","One cannot keep peace longer than his neighbour will let him."
"German","One can speak and seven can sing."
"German","One bird in the dish is better than a hundred in the air."
"German","One bee is as good as a handful of flies."
"German","One bad eye spoils the other."
"German","One bad apple spoils the bunch."
"German","One catches the hare, another eats it."
"German","One ""take this"" is better than ten ""God help you!"""
"German","One coward makes ten."
"German","Once is people's mouths, 'tis hard to get well out of them."
"German","On Saint Thomas the Divine kill all turkeys, geese and swine."
"German","On poor people's beards the young barber learns his trade."
"German","Old wounds easily bleed."
"German","Old trees are not to be bent."
"German","Old pottage is sooner heated than new made."
"German","Old pigs have hard snouts."
"German","Old people see best in the distance."
"German","Old oxen tread hard."
"German","One ass nicknames another ""Long-ears."""
"German","One hour's sleep before midnight is better than two after it."
"German","One marriage is never celebrated but another grows out of it."
"German","One man's story is no story; hear both sides."
"German","One man may steal a horse while another may not look over the hedge."
"German","One man knocks in the nail, and another hangs his hat on it."
"German","One man is another's devil."
"German","One log does not burn long by itself."
"German","One link broken, the whole chain is broken."
"German","One kisses the nurse for the sake of the child."
"German","One cannot wash a blackamoor white."
"German","One hour's sleep before midnight is worth two after."
"German","Priestly knaves sweat hard at their meat, but never at work get into a heat."
"German","One has only to die to be praised."
"German","One half the world laughs at the other half."
"German","One half of the world does not know how the other half lives."
"German","One hair of a woman draws more than a bell-rope."
"German","One fool praises another."
"German","One fool may ask more questions than seven wise men can answer."
"German","One foe is too many, and a hundred friends are too few."
"German","One dog growls to see another go into the kitchen."
"German","One does evil enough when one does nothing good."
"German","One kisses the child for the mother's sake, and the mother for the child's sake."
"German","Security is nowhere safe."
"German","Said in sport, meant in earnest."
"German","Set a beggar on horseback, and he'll ride to the Devil."
"German","Set a beggar on horseback, and he'll outride the devil."
"German","Set a beggar on a horse and he'll ride to the devil."
"German","Services unrequired go unrequited."
"German","Self-preservation is the first law of nature."
"German","Self-praise stinks, friends praise hinks, the stranger's is sincere, and may last for a year."
"German","Self-love is bad, and makes the eyes sad."
"German","Short hair is soon brushed."
"German","Security is the first cause of misfortune."
"German","Sickly body, sickly mind."
"German","Scratching and borrowing do well enough, but not for long."
"German","Scratch a Russian and you find a Tartar."
"German","Scratch a lover and find an enemy."
"German","Saving is a greater art than gaining."
"German","Satiety causes disgust."
"German","Samson was a strong man, but he could not pay money before he had it."
"German","Salt and bread make the cheeks red."
"German","Saint Swithun's day, if thou be fair, for forty days it will remain; Saint Swithun's day, if thou bring rain, for forty days it will remain."
"German","Praising is not loving."
"German","Self is the man."
"German","Small undertakings give great comfort."
"German","There is no fool like an old fool."
"German","Spending your money with many a guest, empties the kitchen, the cellar and chest."
"German","Spend not, where you may save; spare not, where you must spend."
"German","Speedy rise, speedy fall."
"German","Speaking comes by nature, silence by understanding."
"German","Speak, that I may see thee."
"German","Something to every one is good division."
"German","Solitude is the nurse of wisdom."
"German","She is fond of him--on the side where the pocket hangs."
"German","So it goes in the world: one has the purse, the other has the gold."
"German","Safe over the bridge, one laughs at St. Nepomuck."
"German","Small saints too work miracles."
"German","Small profits are often, are better than large profits and seldom."
"German","Small profits and often, are better than large profits and seldom."
"German","Slaughter no more than you can well salt."
"German","Singers, lovers, and poets are privileged liars."
"German","Singed cats live long."
"German","Silks and satins put out the kitchen fire."
"German","Silk and velvet put out the kitchen fire."
"German","Silence and reflection cause no dejection."
"German","Soldiers must be well paid, and well hanged."
"German","Proverbs are like butterflies, some are caught and some fly away."
"German","Saint Martin was an easy man, he loved to drink Cerevisiam; and when he'd no Pecuniam, he left in pledge his Tunicam."
"German","Ragged colts make the handsomest stallions."
"German","Quick enough, if but good enough."
"German","Quick come, quick go."
"German","Quick believers need broad shoulders."
"German","Quick at meat, quick at work."
"German","Put the light out, and all women are alike."
"German","Put out the fire betimes, ere it reach the roof."
"German","Reason doe not come before years."
"German","Prudent men choose frugal wives."
"German","Red is Love's colour, said the wooer to his foxy charmer."
"German","Promises may make friends, but 'tis performances that keep them."
"German","Promises don't fill the belly."
"German","Promises are like the full moon: if they are not kept at once they diminish day by day."
"German","Princes have long hands and many ears."
"German","Priests should not prate out of the confessional."
"German","Priests pay each other no tithes."
"German","Priests even smile pleasantly on young women."
"German","Priests bless themselves first."
"German","Priests and women never forget."
"German","Prudent pauses forward business."
"German","Revenge does not long remain unrevenged."
"German","Roses and maidens soon lose their bloom."
"German","Right is with the strongest."
"German","Riches cause arrogance; poverty, meekness."
"German","Riches abuse them who know not how to use them."
"German","Rich people are everywhere at home."
"German","Rich gamblers and old trumpeters are rare."
"German","Revenge remains not unrevenged."
"German","Revenge of an hundred years old hath still its sucking teeth."
"German","Raise no more devils than you can lay."
"German","Revenge is new wrong."
"German","Stand up, farthing, let the florin sit down."
"German","Revenge converts a little right into a great wrong."
"German","Rest comes from unrest, and unrest from rest."
"German","Report makes the wolf bigger than he is."
"German","Repentance is the heart's medicine."
"German","Rent and Taxes never sleep."
"German","Rejoiced in youth, repented in age."
"German","Red sky in the morning, shepherds warning."
"German","Red sky at night, shepherd's delight; red sky in the morning, shepherd's warning."
"German","Red sky at night, sailor's delight. Red sky at morning, sailors take warning."
"German","Revenge is sweet."
"German","Where there are no swamps there are no frogs."
"German","Where two fall out, the third wins."
"German","Where there's no love, there's no honour."
"German","Where there's no love, all faults are seen."
"German","Where there's no jealousy, there's no love."
"German","Where there's muck there's brass."
"German","Where there's money, there is the devil; but where there's none, a greater evil."
"German","Where there no fools, there would be no wise men."
"German","Where there is smoke there is fire."
"German","There is more disputing about the shell than the kernel."
"German","Where there are too many workmen, there is little work."
"German","Where'er an ass is crown'd to fame, both town and country bear the shame."
"German","Where the lion's skin falls short, borrow of the fox."
"German","Where the hedge is lowest, the devil leaps over."
"German","Where the devil can't go himself, he sends an old woman."
"German","Where the best wine grows, the worst is drunk."
"German","Where money, there friends."
"German","Where might is master, justice is servant."
"German","Where honour grows a span, folly grows an ell."
"German","Where honour ceaseth, there knowledge decreaseth."
"German","Where there is shame, there is virtue."
"German","Who blackens others, does not whiten himself."
"German","Who has a head won't want for a hat."
"German","Who falls short in the head, must be long in the heels."
"German","Who does not punish evil, invites it."
"German","Who demands justice, must administer justice."
"German","Who deceives me once, shame on him; if he deceive me twice, shame on me."
"German","Who comes unbidden departs unthanked."
"German","Who carries doubtful people to his house, will doubtless from his carriage something lose."
"German","Who cannot sing, may whistle."
"German","Where water has been, water will come again."
"German","Who bows to might loses his right."
"German","Where wine goes in, modesty goes out."
"German","Who begins too much, accomplishes little."
"German","Who begins amiss ends amiss."
"German","Who avoids small sins, does not fall into great ones."
"German","Who accepts nothing has nothing to return."
"German","Who accepts from another sells his freedom."
"German","While the pot boils, friendship blooms."
"German","Wherever there is mischief, there is sure to be a priest and a woman in it."
"German","Wherever there is a pretty spot, the devil plants a monastery or a lord."
"German","Where God builds a church, the devil builds a chapel."
"German","Who cannot fight, wins nought by right."
"German","When Christ was along, the devil tempted him."
"German","Where gold chinks, arguments are of no avail."
"German","When poverty comes in at the door, love flies out at the window."
"German","When one goose drinks, all drink."
"German","When old horses get warm, they are not easily held in."
"German","When need is greatest, help is nearest."
"German","When misfortune comes in at the door, love flies out of the window."
"German","When it blows, the trees shake."
"German","When God says To-day, the devil says To-morrow."
"German","When shepherds quarrel, the wolf has a winning game."
"German","When David grew old he sang pious psalms."
"German","When silent men speak they speak to the purpose."
"German","When blind leads the blind, both fall into the ditch."
"German","When a thing is done, make the best of it."
"German","When a man is rich, he begins to save."
"German","When a man is down, everybody runs over him."
"German","When a dove begins to associate with crows its feathers remain white but its heart grows black."
"German","Whatever is to be a hook, bends early."
"German","What's the use of putting honey in an ass's mouth."
"German","What's the good of a sun-dial in the shade?"
"German","What's sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander."
"German","When fortune knocks, open the door."
"German","When the measure is full, it runs over."
"German","Who has, let him thereof take heed; love wanes, misfortune comes with speed."
"German","Where God bestows an office, he provides brains to fill it."
"German","Where ghosts walk, there is loving or thieving."
"German","Where every one goes, the grass never grows."
"German","Where all adulterers to wear grey coats, the cloth would be dear."
"German","When you sweep the stairs, you start at the top."
"German","When the word is out, it belongs to another."
"German","When the wine runs to waste in the cellar, he mends the cask."
"German","When poverty comes in at the door, love jumps out at the window."
"German","When the root is worthless, so is the tree."
"German","Where gold avails, argument fails."
"German","When the lords come out of the council-house, they are wiser than when they went in."
"German","When the jest is at its best, 'twill be well to let it rest."
"German","When the horse dies, dismount."
"German","When the hen had laid an egg she cackles."
"German","When the guest is in most favour, he will do well to quit."
"German","When the fox wants to catch geese, he wags his tail."
"German","When the fox preaches, look to the geese."
"German","When the dog is awake, the shepherd may sleep."
"German","When sorrow is asleep wake it not."
"German","When the tale of bricks is doubled, then comes Moses."
"German","Women and wine, game and deceit, Make the wealth small and the wants great."
"German","With great men one must allow five to be an even number."
"German","Words are good, when works follow."
"German","Words are good, but fowls lay eggs."
"German","Woods have ears, fields have eyes."
"German","Woo the widow whilst she is in weeds."
"German","Women, fortune, and gold, favour fools."
"German","Women are watches that keep bad time."
"German","Women are never at a loss for words."
"German","Words of snow, which fell last year."
"German","Women are as fickle as April weather."
"German","Words often do more than blows."
"German","Women and maidens must be praised, whether truly or falsely."
"German","Woman's beauty, the forest echo, and rainbows, soon pass away."
"German","Without knowledge, without sin."
"German","With someone holding nothing but trumps it is impossible to play cards."
"German","With patience and time the mulberry leaf becomes a silk gown."
"German","With one foot in the grave."
"German","With nice appearance people want to be deceived."
"German","With houses and gold, men are rarely bold."
"German","Who has a mouth, let him not say to another, ""Blow!"""
"German","Women are as wavering as the wind."
"German","You cannot make a silk purse of a sow's ear."
"German","Fancy requires much, necessity but little."
"German","Fair hair may hae foul roots."
"German","Youth and white paper take any impression."
"German","Your words are fair, said the wolf, ""but I will not come into the village."""
"German","Young soldiers, old beggars."
"German","Young saint, old devil."
"German","Young gamblers, old beggars."
"German","Young gambler, old beggar."
"German","Words don't will the sack."
"German","You have to take life as it happens, but you should try to make it happen the way you want to take it."
"German","With all my heart! says the boor, when he must."
"German","You cannot make a sieve of an ass's tail."
"German","You can do anything with children if you only play with them."
"German","Yorkshire born and Yorkshire bred, strong in the arm and weak in the head."
"German","Yielding stays war."
"German","Write on one of the devil's horns, ""Good angel,"" and many will believe it."
"German","Would you live long, be healthy and fat, drink like a dog and eat like a cat."
"German","Would you be strong, conquer yourself."
"German","Workmen are easier found than masters."
"German","Work makes free."
"German","Young angel, old devil."
"German","Who lets another sit on his shoulder, will soon have him on his head."
"German","With great pleasure, says the boor, when he must."
"German","Who rides slow, must saddle betimes."
"German","Who refuses to submit to justice, must not complain of oppression."
"German","Who receives, should thank; who gives, should be silent."
"German","Who readily borrows, readily lies."
"German","Who neither believes heaven or hell, the devil heartily wishes him well."
"German","Who makes no promises, has none to perform."
"German","Who makes friends of all, keeps none."
"German","Who seeks adventures finds blows."
"German","Who loves his work and knows to spare, may live and flourish anywhere."
"German","Who so deaf as he that will not hear."
"German","Who lends his lips to nought but blame, has in his heart no love of fame."
"German","Who is over nice, loses many a slice."
"German","Who is not ashamed of his sins, sins double."
"German","Who is ell seated should not budge."
"German","Who hunts two hares together catches neither."
"German","Who honours not age, is unworthy of it."
"German","Who herds with wolves, must howl with wolves."
"German","Who heeds not little things, will be troubled about lesser ones."
"German","What! keep a dog and bark myself?"
"German","Who loves not women, wine, and song, remains a fool his whole life long."
"German","Who would be young in age, must in youth be sage."
"German","Wine upon beer is very good cheer; beer upon wine consider with fear."
"German","Wine and women make fools of everybody."
"German","Windmills are not driven by bellows."
"German","Whose bread I eat: his song I sing."
"German","Whore or thief young or old, welcome so you've got the gold."
"German","Whom fortune favours, the world favours."
"German","Whoever invented work must not have had anything to do."
"German","Whoever cares to learn will always find a teacher."
"German","Who says little has little to answer for."
"German","Who would wish to be valued must make himself scarce."
"German","Who has tasted a sour apple, will have the more relish for a sweet one."
"German","Who would be rich, must keep his soul under cover of his cash-box."
"German","Who will not feed the cats, must feed the mice and rats."
"German","Who throws a stone above him may have it fall on his own head."
"German","Who threatens, warns."
"German","Who the daughter would win, with mamma must begin."
"German","Who takes the child by the hand takes the mother by the heart."
"German","Who takes an eel by the tail or a woman by her word, grasp as he will, holds nothing fast."
"German","Who steals a calf, steals a cow."
"German","Who speaks ill of others to you will speak ill of you to others."
"German","Who's the man that was never fooled by a woman."
"German","Time, wine, women, and fortune, are ever changing."
"German","Time and opportunity are in no man's sleeve."
"German","'Tis one beggar's woe, to see another by the door go."
"German","'Tis not for everyone to catch a salmon."
"German","'Tis never too late to mend."
"German","'Tis his turn to-day, it will be mine to-morrow."
"German","'Tis hard to swim against the stream."
"German","'Tis either a hare or a brake-bush."
"German","Tired oxen must tread hard."
"German","'Tis too late to spare when the pocket is bare."
"German","Times change and we with time."
"German","'Tis too late to spare, When the bottom is bare."
"German","Time makes hay."
"German","Time is the herald of truth."
"German","Time is the best preacher."
"German","Time is the best counsellor."
"German","Time is anger's medicine."
"German","Time covers and discovers everything."
"German","Time brings everything, to those who can wait for it."
"German","Time betrays and hangs the thief."
"German","Too much will soon break."
"German","Timid dogs bark most."
"German","To live long, eat like a cat, drink like a dog."
"German","What's one man's meat's another man's poison."
"German","Too much is not enough."
"German","Too much humility is pride."
"German","Too much bursts the bag."
"German","Too much bed makes a dull head."
"German","To-day must borrow nothing of to-morrows."
"German","To-day in finery, to-morrow in filth."
"German","To the looker-on no work is too hard."
"German","'Tis the mind ennobles, not the blood."
"German","To remain young while growing old is the highest blessing."
"German","Time and hour run through the roughest day."
"German","To know is easier than to do."
"German","To good eating belongs good drinking."
"German","To give quickly is to give doubly."
"German","To every one his own is not too much."
"German","To change and to do better are two different things."
"German","To change and change for the better are two different things."
"German","To a quick ear half a word."
"German","Tit for tat."
"German","'Tis written, ""What's not your own, that let alone."""
"German","To spend much and gain little is the sure road to ruin."
"German","There the hedge is lowest, men leap over."
"German","Time and tide wait for no man."
"German","They are not all cooks who carry long knives."
"German","There's seldom a cake but there's more of the make."
"German","There's one born every minute."
"German","There's nowt so queer as folk."
"German","There's nothing new under the sun."
"German","There's no rest for the wicked."
"German","There's no putting off a lie upon the belly."
"German","They are not all hunters who blow horns."
"German","There's cunning in a pointed chin."
"German","They love the old that do not know the new."
"German","There is nothing for which the boors pray so much to God as that the horses of the squirearchy may not die, for otherwise they would ride the boors with spurs."
"German","There is no stripping a naked man."
"German","There is no saint so petty but claims his own candle."
"German","There is no one luckier than he who thinks himself so."
"German","There is no off switch on a tiger."
"German","There is no occasion for priests to marry, while peasants have wives."
"German","There is no little enemy."
"German","There is no law but has a hole in it, for those who can find it out."
"German","There is no good in preaching to the hungry."
"German","There's no making apples of plums."
"German","Thirteen nuns, fourteen children!"
"German","Thrift is a great revenue."
"German","Three, helping one another, bear the burden of six."
"German","Three women, three geese, and three frogs, make a fair."
"German","Thousands drink themselves to death before one dies of thirst."
"German","Thoughts are toll-free, but not hell-free."
"German","Thought when sober, said when drunk."
"German","Though you seat the frog on a golden stool, he'll soon jump off again into the pool."
"German","Those who wade in unknown waters will be sure to be drowned."
"German","They are not all friends who laugh with you."
"German","Those bosoms can be sold cheapest which are stolen ready made."
"German","Too much wisdom is folly."
"German","They wrangle about an egg, and let the hens fly away."
"German","They who eat cherries with the great, are like to have the stones and stalks flung in their face."
"German","They who deserve honour, fail of it; and they who obtain it, do not deserve it."
"German","They who come from afar are prone to lie."
"German","They play till they quarrel."
"German","They need much whom nothing will content."
"German","They must hunger in frost who will not work in heat."
"German","They must hunger in frost who spring-time have lost."
"German","They must be strong legs that can support prosperous days."
"German","Those who tickle themselves may laugh when they please."
"German","What goes around, comes around."
"German","Were a woman rules the house, the devil is serving-man."
"German","What is sport to the cat is death to the mouse."
"German","What is said is said, and no sponge can wipe it out."
"German","What is right for the one is reasonable for the other."
"German","What is not taken by the Church is taken by the Exchequer."
"German","What is no sin, is no shame."
"German","What harm is there in a good word? It costs nothing."
"German","What greater crime than loss of time?"
"German","What is too high, that let fly."
"German","What goes down usually comes up."
"German","What Manchester says today, the rest of England says tomorrow."
"German","What God haith joined together, let no man put asunder."
"German","What does the moon care if the dogs bay at her?"
"German","What comes seldom, comes sharp."
"German","What comes from the heart, goes to the heart."
"German","What blossoms beautifully, withers fast."
"German","What bird so white as mine? says the crow."
"German","What belongs to the ravens is never drowned."
"German","Were I a hatter, men would come into the world without heads."
"German","Too much luck is bad luck."
"German","What goes up must come down."
"German","What the eyes see, the heart believes."
"German","Whatever is given to the poor, is laid out of the reach of fortune."
"German","What you lose on the swings you gain on the roundabouts."
"German","What you lend to a friend, an enemy sues for."
"German","What you have, hold."
"German","What you give, is written in sand; what you take, with an iron hand."
"German","What you do, do quickly."
"German","What we want in hay we make up in straw."
"German","What three know will soon be known to thirty."
"German","What is the use of running when we are not on the right road?"
"German","What the lion cannot, the fox can."
"German","Well-done outlives death."
"German","What soberness conceals, drunkenness reveals."
"German","What smarts teaches."
"German","What signifies the barking of a dog that don't bite?"
"German","What should a cow do with a nutmeg?"
"German","What ripens fast does not last."
"German","What one knows it is useful sometimes to forget."
"German","What one is accustomed to in youth, one does in old age."
"German","What one does not bake, another brews."
"German","What Master Jacky does not learn, Mr. John never knows."
"German","What the peacock has too little on his head, he has too much on his tail."
"German","Truth gives a short answer, lies go round about."
"German","Were he to throw a groat on the roof, it would come down a dollar."
"German","Two in distress makes sorrow the less."
"German","Two hard flints never grind well."
"German","Two dogs over one bone seldom agree."
"German","Two cats and one mouse, two women in one house, two dogs to one bone, will not agree long."
"German","Truth's best ornament is nakedness."
"German","Truth will out."
"German","Truth should not always be revealed."
"German","Two is company, but three's a crowd."
"German","Truth ill-timed is as bad as a lie."
"German","Unlaid eggs are a long time becoming chickens."
"German","Truth finds no asylum."
"German","Truth creeps not into corners."
"German","Trusting too much to others has been the ruin of many."
"German","Trust, but not too much."
"German","Trust, beware whom!"
"German","Trust well rides away with the horse."
"German","Trust no one till you have eaten a bushel of salt with him."
"German","Trueman's house stands the longest."
"German","Trick against trick."
"German","Truth makes the tongue smart."
"German","Water is the strongest drink; it drives mills."
"German","Weeds want no sowing."
"German","We must eat and drink though every tree were a gallows."
"German","We know what we have, but not what we shall get."
"German","We knock in jest, and it is opened in earnest."
"German","We hang little thieves, and take off our hats to great ones."
"German","We give to the rich, and take from the poor."
"German","We do in haste what we repent at leisure."
"German","We cannot direct the wind, but we can adjust the sails."
"German","Two is company, but three is none."
"German","We beat the sack and mean the miller."
"German","What's of no use is too dear at a gift."
"German","Watching women is labour in vain."
"German","War is pleasant to those who have not tried it."
"German","Wait, is a hard word to the hungry."
"German","Virtue would not go far, if a little vanity walked not with it."
"German","Virtue subdues power."
"German","Virtue never dies."
"German","Virtue flourishes in misfortune."
"German","Victory is not gained by idleness."
"German","Unlooked-for often comes."
"German","We cannot all be Pope of Rome."
"German","He who is feared by many, fears many."
"German","If the prince wants an apple, his servants take the tree."
"German","He who lends to the poor gets his interest from God."
"German","He who is quick at borrowing, is slow in paying."
"German","He who is of on use to himself, is of no use to any one else."
"German","He who is not for me, is against me."
"German","He who lies on the ground must expect to be trodden on."
"German","He who is his own teacher, has a fool for his pupil."
"German","He who likes cherries soon learns to climb."
"German","He who is born to misfortunate stumbles as he goes, and though he fall on his back will fracture his nose."
"German","He who is always drinking and stuffing, will in time become a ragamuffin."
"German","He who is afraid of doing too much, always does too little."
"German","He who inherits a farthing, is expected to disburse a dollar."
"German","He who hath ears to hear, let him hear."
"German","He who has victory, has right."
"German","He who is judge between two friends, loses one of them."
"German","He who makes friends of all keeps none."
"German","He who ploughs with young oxen, makes crooked furrows."
"German","He who plants a garden plants happiness."
"German","He who pitches too high won't get through his song."
"German","He who pays well may borrow again."
"German","He who pays his debts, betters his condition."
"German","He who lies in the grave, is well lodged."
"German","He who makes himself honey, will be eaten by the flies."
"German","He who has the Pope for his cousin may soon be a Cardinal."
"German","He who makes a mouse of himself, will be eaten by the cats."
"German","He who looks on know more of the game than he who plays."
"German","He who lives on hope, dies of hunger."
"German","He who lives in a glass house should be the last to throw stones."
"German","He who lives by the sword dies by the sword."
"German","He who lives by the church shall serve the church."
"German","He who makes himself nothing, is nothing."
"German","He who digs a pit for others falls into it himself."
"German","He who follows the crowd has many companions."
"German","He who finds what has not been lost, will chance to die before he is ill."
"German","He who envies, suffers."
"German","He who does not open his eyes must open his purse."
"German","He who does not improve to-day will grow worse to-morrow."
"German","He who has to do with foxes must look after his hen-roost."
"German","He who does not bait his hook catches nothing."
"German","He who gives to the poor, lends to the Lord."
"German","Fir and water are good servants, but bad masters."
"German","Whatever is to be a nettle, burns early."
"German","Old churches have dark windows."
"German","He who conquers his anger has conquered an enemy."
"German","He who conceits himself wise, has an ass near at hand."
"German","He who cheats a cheat and robs a thief, earns a dispensation for 100 years."
"German","He who does not go forward, stays behind."
"German","He who has a glass roof must not throw stones at others."
"German","He who prates much, lies much."
"German","He who has the fortune brings home the bride."
"German","He who has one foot in a brothel, has the other in a hospital."
"German","He who has once invited the devil into his house, will never be rid of him."
"German","He who has once burnt his mouth always blows his soup."
"German","He who has not tasted bitter, knows not what sweet is."
"German","He who forces love when none is found, remains a fool the whole year round."
"German","He who has good neighbours, gets a good morning."
"German","He who gives quickly, gives doubly."
"German","He who handles pitch, besmears himself."
"German","He who grasps too much lets much fall."
"German","He who grasps at all, holds nothing fast."
"German","He who goes to bed with dogs, will wake up with fleas."
"German","He who gives, must take (meaning a joke)."
"German","He who has three enemies must agree with two."
"German","He who has left a rogue behind him, has made a good day's journey."
"German","I have is a better bird than ""If I had."""
"German","Idleness has poverty for wages."
"German","I would rather have a dog my friend than enemy."
"German","I will win the horse, or lose the saddle."
"German","I will not change a cottage in possession for a kingdom in reversion."
"German","I will not bite any dog, says the shepherd's dog, ""for I must save my teeth for the wolf."""
"German","How many daily read the Bible, and yet pursue their course of evil."
"German","I rest, therefore I rust."
"German","Idleness is the sepulchre of a living man."
"German","I have had is a poor man."
"German","I can see as far into a mill-stone as another man."
"German","Hussars pray for war, and the doctor for fever."
"German","Hurry no man's cattle."
"German","Hungry flies sting sore."
"German","He who praises himself must have bad neighbours."
"German","I wept when I was born, and every day shows why."
"German","If I am to be drowned, it shall be in clean water."
"German","If the landlady is fair, the wine is fair."
"German","If the eye does not want to see, neither light nor glasses will help."
"German","If the brain sows not corn, it plants thistles."
"German","If the bitch were not in haste, she would not litter blind puppies."
"German","If some men knew who some men were, then some would pay the more honour there."
"German","If I rest, I rust, says the key."
"German","Idleness is the beginning of all sin."
"German","If I canna do't by might, I'll do't by sleight."
"German","Idleness is the root of all evil."
"German","If I am seen, I am joking; if I am not seen, I steal."
"German","If fools were to eat no bread, corn would be cheap."
"German","If every one were wise, a fool would be the prize."
"German","If a man would know what he is, let him anger his neighbours."
"German","If a dog's prayers were answered, bones would rain from the skies."
"German","How easily a hair gets into the butter!"
"German","If I cannot move the powers above, Acheron itself shall be appealed to. [If fair means cannot, foul shall.]"
"German","He who sleeps along keeps long cold, two soon warm each other."
"German","He who treads on eggs, must tread lightly."
"German","He who travels with hope, has poverty for his coachman."
"German","He who tickles himself, laughs when he likes."
"German","He who teaches children learns more than they do."
"German","He who takes no care of little things, will not have the care of great ones."
"German","How many daily read the Word, and yet from vice are not deterred."
"German","He who stands godfather to a wolf should have a dog under his cloak."
"German","He who won't be advised, can't be helped."
"German","He who shoots often, hits at last."
"German","He who serves the people has a bad master."
"German","He who serves small masters, is himself one of them."
"German","He who saves in little things, can be liberal in great ones."
"German","He who prizes little things, is worthy of great ones."
"German","He who cannot help, may hinder."
"German","He who stops half way is only half in error."
"German","He whose mistress squints, says the ogles."
"German","Honesty lasts longest."
"German","Hold a candle to the devil!"
"German","Hobby horses are dearer than Arabians."
"German","His hens lay eggs with two yolks."
"German","High regions are never without storms."
"German","High houses are mostly empty in the upper story."
"German","He who will have eggs, must bear with the cackling."
"German","Herod and Pilate are good friends!"
"German","He who wipes the child's nose, means to kiss the mother's cheek."
"German","He who would the daughter win, with the mother must begin."
"German","He who would succeed at court, must lie sometimes low, sometimes high."
"German","He who would rule must hear and be deaf, see and be blind."
"German","He who would prosper in peace, must suffer in silence."
"German","He who would go further than his horse, must alight and go on foot."
"German","He who praises in praesentia, and abuses in absentia, have with him pestilentia."
"German","Hide not your light under a bushel."
"German","God gives the nuts but he does not crack them."
"German","Gone is gone; no Jew will lend upon it."
"German","Gold may be bought too dear."
"German","Gold goes in at any gate."
"German","God's mill goes slowly, but it grinds well."
"German","God's friends, the priest's foe."
"German","Full vessels give the least sound."
"German","God gives, but man must open his hand."
"German","Good faith is a seldom guest, when you have him, hold him fast."
"German","God cures the sick, and the doctor gets the money."
"German","Go to the law for a sheep and lose your cow."
"German","Give up the smallest part of a secret, and the rest is no longer in your power."
"German","Give unto the king what is the king's, and unto God what is God's."
"German","Gifts are according to the giver."
"German","Great say-masters, bad pay-masters."
"German","God is everywhere, except where he has a delegate."
"German","Good wine ruins the purse, and bad the stomach."
"German","He who cannot pay with his purse, must pay with his hide."
"German","Great minds think alike."
"German","Great men's vices are accounted sacred."
"German","Great men's servants don't think little of themselves."
"German","Great men may just with saints."
"German","Great fish are caught in great waters."
"German","Good counsel comes over night."
"German","Got with the fife, spent with the drum."
"German","Good counsel never comes too late."
"German","Good wine is milk for the aged."
"German","Good thongs may be cut out of other people's hides."
"German","Good people live far asunder."
"German","Good luck, with good looking after!"
"German","Good faith stole the cow."
"German","Free man, free goods."
"German","Great cry and little wool, said the fool, when he sheared a pig."
"German","Five fingers hold more than two forks."
"German","Fools must not be set on eggs."
"German","Fools for luck."
"German","Fools build houses, wise men buy them."
"German","Follow Love and it will flee, Flee love and it will follow thee."
"German","Folks say there is a lack of four sorts of people on earth: of priests, else one would not have six or seven benefices; of gentleman, else every boor would not want to be a squire; of whores, else married women and nuns would not carry on the trade; of Jews, else Christians would not practise usury."
"German","Funeral sermon, lying sermon."
"German","Flatterers are cats that lick before and scratch behind."
"German","For love the wolf eats the sheep."
"German","Fish begin to stink at the head."
"German","First weigh, then venture."
"German","First look at home, then censure me."
"German","Fire is a good servant but a bad master."
"German","Fire in the heart sends smoke into the head."
"German","Fire and faggot are but sad reformers."
"German","Flatterers haunt not cottages."
"German","Forgive and forget."
"German","Fortune is like women: loves youth and is fickle."
"German","Fortune gives her hand to a bold man."
"German","Fortune give many too much, but no one enough."
"German","Fortune and women are partial to fools."
"German","Fortune and misfortune are two buckets in a well."
"German","Fortune and misfortune are neighbors."
"German","Fools refuse favours."
"German","Forgive thyself nothing and others much."
"German","Fools rush in where angels fear to tread."
"German","Fore-talk spares after-talk."
"German","Forbidden fruit is sweet."
"German","Forbearance is no acquittance."
"German","For the upright there are no laws."
"German","For the diligent, a week has seven days; for the slothful, seven tomorrows."
"German","Great talkers are commonly liars."
"German","Forgiven is not forgotten."
"German","He that marries for love has good nights, but sorry days."
"German","He that wants the kernel must crack the nut."
"German","He that sits among reeds, cuts pipes when he pleases."
"German","He that says A, must also say B."
"German","He that picks up all sorts of wood, soon gets an armful."
"German","He that pelts every barking dog, must pick up a great many stones."
"German","He that asketh faintly beggeth a denial."
"German","He that may not as he wad, maun do as he may."
"German","He that would cheat a Jew, must be a Jew."
"German","He that hunts others, must run himself."
"German","He that has no head, need no hat."
"German","He that has lost his credit is dead to the world."
"German","He that has good legs, has often bad boots."
"German","He that finds fault wants to buy."
"German","Great oaks from little acorns grow."
"German","He that peeps into every bush will hardly get into the wood."
"German","He who borrows sells his freedom."
"German","He who is absent is always in the wrong."
"German","He who can does, he who cannot, teaches."
"German","He who buys what he don't want, will soon sell what he does want."
"German","He who buys a house gets many a plank and nail for nothing."
"German","He who builds on the public way, must let the people have their say."
"German","He who builds by the road-side has many masters."
"German","He that will not be saved needs no preacher."
"German","He who brings bad tidings, comes soon enough."
"German","He that won't listen, must feel."
"German","He who blows in the fire will get sparks in his eyes."
"German","He who blackens others does not whiten himself."
"German","He who begins much, finishes little."
"German","He who always thinks it is too soon, is sure to come too late."
"German","He that would eat the fruit must climb the tree."
"German","He that always thinks it is too soon is sure to come too late."
"German","He who brings, is welcome."
"German","Half a loaf is better than no bread."
"German","Having is haying, come whence it may."
"German","Hat in hand goes through the land."
"German","Hasten at leisure."
"German","Hares are caught with hounds, fools with praise, and women with gold."
"German","Hard against hard never was good."
"German","He that climbs high, falls heavily."
"German","Handsome is the handsome does."
"German","He has beans in his ears."
"German","Half a house is half a hell."
"German","Had I known is a poor man."
"German","Hackney mistress, Hackney maid."
"German","Greedy fowk hae long arms."
"German","Greatness alone in not enough, or the cow would outrun the hare."
"German","Great trees give more shade than fruit."
"German","Happy is the one who forgets that which cannot be changed."
"German","He is a fool and ever shall, Who writes his name upon a wall."
"German","He struck at Tib, but down fell Tim."
"German","He sticks his nose in everything."
"German","He plays best, who wins."
"German","He must have keen eyes that would know a maid at sight."
"German","He laughs best who laughs last."
"German","He laughs at scars who never felt a wound."
"German","He goes about it like a cat round hot milk."
"German","He is lucky who forgets what cannot be mended."
"German","He goes as willingly as a thief to the gallows."
"German","He is a bad workman who cannot talk of work."
"German","He is a bad smith who cannot bear smoke."
"German","He is a bad shot who cannot find an excuse."
"German","He has his finger in every pie."
"German","He has given the hen for the egg."
"German","He who cannot paint must grind the colours."
"German","He is rich enough who is contented."
"German","No pains, no gains."
"German","No use in flogging a dead horse."
"German","No one can complain of the sea who twice suffers shipwreck."
"German","No one can do nothing, and no one can do everything."
"German","No one can guard against treachery."
"German","No one is too old to learn."
"German","No one knows better where the shoe pinches that he who wears it."
"German","No one betrays himself by silence."
"German","No one sees his own faults."
"German","No man's master, no master's man."
"German","No penny, no paternoster."
"German","No pride like that of an enriched beggar."
"German","No smoke without fire."
"German","No song, no supper."
"German","No tree falls at the first stroke."
"German","Never give the skin when you can pay with the wool."
"German","No one likes to bell the cat."
"German","No ape but swears he has the handsomest children."
"German","Old birds are hard to pluck."
"German","Never murder a man who is about to commit suicide."
"German","Never trust to another what you should do yourself."
"German","New churches and new taverns are seldom empty."
"German","New come, welcome."
"German","New doctor, new churchyard."
"German","No one can blow and swallow at the same time."
"German","New songs are eagerly sung."
"German","No villain like the conscientious villain."
"German","No armour is proof against the gallows."
"German","No house without a mouse, no barn without corn, no rose without a thorn."
"German","No house without a mouse."
"German","No jealousy, no love."
"German","No man can do nothing and no man can do everything."
"German","No man can like all, or be liked by all."
"German","New laws, new roguery."
"German","Of war all can tattle, away from the battle."
"German","No tree so small but it can cast a shade."
"German","Nothing weighs lighter than a promise."
"German","Nought is good for the eyes, but not for the stomach."
"German","Nought is never in danger."
"German","Nought needs no hiding-place."
"German","Nurenberg wit and a skilful hand, will find their way through every land."
"German","Nothing should be done in haste but gripping a flea."
"German","Of big words and feathers may go to the pound."
"German","Nothing should be done in a hurry except catching fleas."
"German","Of what use is it that the cow gives plenty of milk, if she upset the pail."
"German","Of words and feathers, it takes many to make a pound."
"German","Offend one monk, and the lappets of all cowls will flutter as far as Rome."
"German","Offenders never pardon."
"German","Office without pay makes thieves."
"German","Often shooting hits the mark."
"German","O what we must suffer for the sake of God's church! said the abbot, when the roast fowl burned his fingers."
"German","Not every land has all at hand."
"German","No viper so little but hath its venom."
"German","No woman marries an old man for God's sake."
"German","Noble and common blood is of the same color."
"German","Noble is, that noble does."
"German","Nobody is to blame for all."
"German","Nobody so wise but has a little folly to spare."
"German","Nothing so bad as not to be good for something."
"German","Not every ass has long ears."
"German","Never give advice unasked."
"German","Not every one may pluck roses."
"German","Not to be ashamed of sin is to sin double."
"German","Nothing bolder than the miller's shirt, that every morning collars a thief."
"German","Nothing dries sooner than tears."
"German","Nothing is so new as what has long been forgotten."
"German","Nothing looks more like a man of sense than a fool who holds his tongue."
"German","Mind your own business."
"German","Make yourself an ass, and you'll have every man's sack on your shoulders."
"German","Money taken, freedom forsaken."
"German","Many children, and little bread, is a painful pleasure."
"German","Many can pack the cards that cannot play."
"German","Many can help one."
"German","Many a one threatens, while he quakes for fear."
"German","Many a good cow has a bad calf."
"German","Many go out for wool, and come home shorn."
"German","Man loves but once."
"German","Many hands make quick work."
"German","Make yourself an ass, and every one will lay his sack on you."
"German","Make the cap fit the head."
"German","Make the best of a bad bargain."
"German","Misfortune, wood, and hair, grow throughout the year."
"German","Misreckoning is no payment."
"German","Never grieve over spilt milk."
"German","Man without woman, is head without body; woman without man, is body without head."
"German","Many trades, begging the best."
"German","Mind over matter."
"German","Millers, tailors, and weavers are not hanged, or the trade would soon be extinct."
"German","Millers and bakers do not steal, people bring to them."
"German","Merchant to-day, beggar to-morrow."
"German","Marrying is easy, but housekeeping is hard."
"German","Marrying in the blood is never good."
"German","Many cooks spoil the broth."
"German","Many who build castles in the air cannot build a hut on earth."
"German","Money talks."
"German","Many take by the bushel, and give with the spoon."
"German","Many small make a great."
"German","Many shun the sword, and come to the gallows."
"German","Many see more with one eye that others with two."
"German","Many look with one eye at what they give, but with seven at what they receive."
"German","Many have good intentions, but something comes across them."
"German","Marriage is heaven and hell."
"German","Necessity teaches even the lame to dance."
"German","Money in the purse dispels melancholy."
"German","Nature and love cannot be hid."
"German","Nature draws stronger then seven oxen."
"German","Nature has given us two ears, two eyes, and but one tongue."
"German","Nature requires little, fancy much."
"German","Nature teaches us to love our friends, but religion our enemies."
"German","My friend's enemy is often my best friend."
"German","Necessity teaches arts."
"German","He who heeds not the lost shoe-nail, will soon lose the horse."
"German","Necessity unites hearts."
"German","Neck or nothing."
"German","Neighbour once over the hedge, neighbour over it again."
"German","Neutrals are soused from above, and singed from below."
"German","Neutrals tread on eggs and break none."
"German","Never fell oak at the very first stroke."
"German","Necessity seeks bread where it is to be found."
"German","Much money, much friends."
"German","Monks, mice, rats, vermin, seldom sunder without harming."
"German","Mony sma's mak a great."
"German","More afraid than hurt."
"German","More are drowned in the bowl than in the sea."
"German","More belongs to riding than a pair of boots."
"German","More is done with words than with hands."
"German","If the shoe fits, wear it."
"German","Mouth and heart are wide apart."
"German","Not every ball hits."
"German","Much taste, much waste."
"German","Much wisdom is lost in poor men's mouths."
"German","Much wit is lost in a poor man's purse."
"German","Mules make a great fuss about their ancestors having been horses."
"German","Murder will out."
"German","Must is a hard nut."
"German","Mother, I must have a husband, or I shall set fire to the house."
"German","Maids say nay, and take."
"German","It is idle to swallow the cow and choke on the tail."
"German","It is human to err, but diabolical to persevere."
"German","It is harder work getting to hell than to heaven."
"German","It is hard to steal where the host himself is a thief."
"German","It is easy to help him, who is willing to be helped."
"German","It is easier to guard against a bushel of fleas than a woman."
"German","Keep within compass and you may be sure, That you will not suffer what others endure."
"German","It is easier to build two hearths than always to keep fire on one."
"German","It is not always good to be wise."
"German","It is dear honey that must be licked off thorns."
"German","Not all flowers are fit for nosegays."
"German","It is better to deal with a whole fool than half a fool."
"German","It is better the child should cry than the father."
"German","It is bad preaching to deaf ears."
"German","It is bad baking without flour and water."
"German","It is easier to descend than ascend."
"German","It's not healthy to swallow books without chewing."
"German","Keep well with your neighbours, whether right or wrong."
"German","Justice has a waxen nose."
"German","Judges should have two ears, both alike."
"German","Joy and sorrow are to-day and to-morrow."
"German","Joy and sorrow are next door neighbours."
"German","Jealousy is a pain which eagerly seeks what causes pain."
"German","It is more necessary to guard the mouth than the chest."
"German","Jack gets on by his stupidity."
"German","It is more painful to do nothing than something."
"German","It's a sin to steal a pin."
"German","It's a poor sheep that cannot carry its own wool."
"German","It is too much to expect of a cat that she should sit by the milk and not lap it."
"German","It is not want but abundance that makes avarice."
"German","It is not till the cow has lost her tail, that she discovers its value."
"German","It is not good to be the poet of a village."
"German","It is a bad hen that lays in neighbour's houses."
"German","Jacob's voice, Esau's hands."
"German","If you don't light fires, smoke won't get in your eyes."
"German","It is a poor fox that has but one hole."
"German","If you want peace, you must prepare for war."
"German","If you want fire, look for it in the ashes."
"German","If you have no money, turn placeman! as the court fool said to his sovereign."
"German","If you have no arrows in your quiver, go not with archers."
"German","If you have a good friend, you don't need a mirror."
"German","If you've money, take a seat; it you've none, take to your feet."
"German","If you don't like the heat, get out of the kitchen."
"German","Ill got, ill spent."
"German","If you can't get it in bushels, take it in spoonfuls."
"German","If you are an anvil, be patient; if you are a hammer, strike hard."
"German","If wood-hewing were an order, there would be fewer monks."
"German","If we pay for the music we will take part in the dance."
"German","If there be a hell, Rome is built over it."
"German","If the wolf would cease his running, the people would cease their shouting."
"German","If the wolf had stayed in the wood there would have been no hue and cry after him."
"German","If you don't make mistakes you don't make anything."
"German","In the looking-glass we see our form, in wine the heart."
"German","It is easier to blame than do better."
"German","Invalids live longest."
"German","Intemperance is the doctor's wet-nurse."
"German","Instead of complaining that the rosebush is full of thorns, be happy that the thorn bush has roses."
"German","Ingratitude sickens benevolence."
"German","Ingratitude is the world's reward."
"German","If you would have the lamp burn, you must pour oil into it."
"German","In time of war the devil makes more room in hell."
"German","It is a bad horse that does not earn his fodder."
"German","In the evening one may praise the day."
"German","In old houses many mice, in old furs many lice."
"German","In bad luck, hold out; in good luck, hold in."
"German","In a calm sea, every man is a pilot."
"German","Ill-gotten goods seldom prosper."
"German","Ill gotten goods seldom prosper."
"German","Ill gotten goods never thrive."
"German","Industry is the parent of fortune."
"German","Long-talked-of (or looked-for) comes at last."
"German","Like will to like, as the devil said to the coal-burner."
"German","Little enemies and little wounds are not to be despised."
"German","Love cannot be bought or sold, its only price is love."
"German","Little folks are fond of talking about what great folks do."
"German","Locks and keys are not made for honest fingers."
"German","Long borrowed is not given."
"German","Long choosing and cheapening ends in buying nothing, or bad wares."
"German","Long fasting is no economy of food."
"German","Long foretold, long last; short notice, soon past."
"German","Maidens say no, and mean yes."
"German","Look before you leap, For snakes among sweet flowers do creep."
"German","Like blood, like means, and like age, make the happiest marriage."
"German","Love begins at home."
"German","Little and often makes a heap in time."
"German","Love can do much, money can do all."
"German","It is better to turn back than go astray."
"German","Lying is the first step to the gallows."
"German","Loving and singing are not to be forced."
"German","Love, thieves, and fear, make ghosts."
"German","Love, fire, a cough, the itch, and gout are not to be concealed."
"German","Love's anger is fuel to love."
"German","Love your neighbor, but don't tear down your fence."
"German","Love without return is like a question without an answer."
"German","Love knows hidden paths."
"German","Love grows with obstacles."
"German","Keep within compass."
"German","Loquacity and lying are cousins."
"German","Learned fools are the greatest fools."
"German","Little fishes make the pike big."
"German","Let not thy right hand know what thy left hand doeth."
"German","Let him who is well off hold his tongue."
"German","Let every pedlar carry his own pack."
"German","Let every one sweep before his own door."
"German","Less is more."
"German","Let people take and dogs bark."
"German","Learned fools exceed all fools."
"German","Let sleeping dogs lie."
"German","Lean liberty is better than fat slavery."
"German","Lazybones take all day to get started."
"German","Lawyers' gowns are lined with the wilfulness of their clients."
"German","Lawyers are bad Christians."
"German","Late fruit keeps well."
"German","Knowing hens lay even in nettles."
"German","Kindnesses, like grain, increase by sowing."
"German","Less advice and more hands."
"German","Let the guest go before the storm bursts."
"German","Light come, light go."
"German","Lies melt the snow."
"German","Let your trouble tarry till its own day comes."
"German","Long is not for ever."
"German","Let your head be more than a funnel to your stomach."
"German","Light is light, though the blind man see it not."
"German","Let the devil get into the church, and he will mount the altar."
"German","Let the dead rest."
"German","Let your purse be your master."
"German, Italian","So many countries, so many customs."
"German, Italian","When the pear is ripe, it falls."
"German, Italian","The best is the cheapest."
"German, Italian","The best is the enemy of the good."
"German, Italian","Saying and doing are two things."
"German, Italian","Good bargains empty the purse."
"German, Italian","The cat loves fish, but is loth to wet her feet."
"German, Italian","The worst wheel creaks most."
"German, Italian","A golden bit makes none the better horse."
"German, Italian","He that is born to be hanged will never be drowned."
"German, Italian","Liars should have good memories."
"German, Italian","Every glowworm is not a fire."
"German, Italian","An empty sack will not stand upright."
"German, Italian","Better aught than nought."
"German, Italian","Even counted sheep are eaten by the wolf."
"German, Italian","One knife whets another."
"German, Italian","Fools live poor to die rich."
"German, Italian","Lies have short legs."
"German, Italian","He dances well to whom fortune pipes."
"German, Italian","It is not enough to aim, you must hit."
"German, Italian","Fools grow without watering."
"German, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish","Four eyes see more than two."
"German, Italian, Spanish","A little spark kindles a great fire."
"German, Portuguese","God helps them that help themselves."
"German, Portuguese","What can't be cured, must be endured."
"German, Portuguese","Where friends, there riches."
"German, Portuguese, Spanish","Slow but sure."
"German, Portuguese, Spanish","At night all cats are grey."
"German, Portuguese, Spanish","It is an ill bird that fouls its own nest."
"German, Portuguese, Spanish","Sloth is the mother of poverty."
"German, Portuguese, Spanish","Slow help is no help."
"German, Portuguese, Spanish","Sloth is the key to poverty."
"German, Spanish","A woman and a glass are always in danger."
"German, Spanish","Better one-eyed than stone blind."
"German, Spanish","Better play at small game than stand out."
"German, Spanish","Children and fools speak the truth."
"German, Spanish","Children and fools tell the truth."
"German, Spanish","Good wine sells itself."
"German, Spanish","Good wines needs no bush."
"German, Spanish","The devil lurks behind the cross."
"German, Spanish","The devil makes his Christmas pies of lawyers' tongues and clerk's fingers."
"German, Spanish","Too many cooks spoil the broth."
"Ghana","The blacksmith in one village becomes a blacksmith's apprentice in another."
"Ghana","There is no medicine to cure hatred."
"Ghana","If you find no fish, you have to eat bread."
"Ghana","The white man lives in the castle; when he dies, he lies in the ground."
"Ghana","There is no medicine against old age."
"Ghanaian","The moon moves slowly, but it gets across the town."
"Ghanaian","The army of the palm tree is its branches."
"Ghanaian","The blood soup made of one palm nut is shared in little drops."
"Ghanaian","The prickly branches of the palm tree do not show preference even to friends."
"Ghanaian","The chicken also knows when it's morning, but still watches the mouth of the cock."
"Ghanaian","The poor man and the rich man do not play together."
"Ghanaian","The family is like the forest: if you are outside, it is dense; if you are inside, you see that each tree has its own position."
"Ghanaian","The goat says: ""Nobody willingly walks to his own death."""
"Ghanaian","The monkey says there is nothing better than poverty to unlearn man of his conceit."
"Ghanaian","The goat says: ""What will come has already come."""
"Ghanaian","The goat says: ""Where there is blood, there is plenty of food."""
"Ghanaian","One is born, one dies; the land increases."
"Ghanaian","The good wife at her husband's home, the other one is at her parent's home."
"Ghanaian","The grasshopper which is always near its mother eats the best food."
"Ghanaian","The left hand washes the right and the right washes the left."
"Ghanaian","The ""obereku"" bird should be eaten hot."
"Ghanaian","The goat says: ""They bought my mother, not I."""
"Ghanaian","One palm nut cannot be peeled twice."
"Ghanaian","Nobody is shamed twice."
"Ghanaian","No one tests the depth of the river with both feet."
"Ghanaian","When someone is already approaching, there is no need to say ""Come here."""
"Ghanaian","The rain wets the leopard's spots but does not wash them off."
"Ghanaian","One camel does not make fun of another camel's hump."
"Ghanaian","One cannot both feast and become rich."
"Ghanaian","One lie ruins a thousand truths."
"Ghanaian","One knows even when one neighbor's bread is in the oven."
"Ghanaian","Since the beggar would come any way, it's best to invite him first."
"Ghanaian","One should never rub bottoms with a porcupine."
"Ghanaian","One strong man does not catch another strong man."
"Ghanaian","Only the fool points at his origins with his left hand."
"Ghanaian","Only when you have crossed the river, can you say the crocodile has a lump on his snout."
"Ghanaian","People working on the slope of a mountain do not look at the buttocks of one another."
"Ghanaian","Rain beats on a leopard's skin, but it does not wash out the spots."
"Ghanaian","Rain wets a leopard's skin, but it does not wash out the spots."
"Ghanaian","One falsehood spoils a thousand truths."
"Ghanaian","Wisdom is not like money to be tied up and hidden."
"Ghanaian","When a man is wealthy he may wear an old cloth."
"Ghanaian","When a woman is hungry, she says, ""Roast something for the children that they may eat."""
"Ghanaian","When the bag tears, the shoulders get a rest."
"Ghanaian","When the cock is drunk, he forgets about the hawk."
"Ghanaian","When the palm nuts ripen, you carry half and I carry half."
"Ghanaian","When women increase in wealth, they are silent. But when they fall into trouble, the whole world gets to know."
"Ghanaian","When a man's coat is threadbare, it is easy to pick a hole in it."
"Ghanaian","When you follow in the path of your father, you learn to walk like him."
"Ghanaian","When a deceiving man tells you to climb a tree, tell him to climb it first. If he finds a comfortable spot you can follow him."
"Ghanaian","Wood already touched by fire is not hard to set alight."
"Ghanaian","You can always buy her back later."
"Ghanaian","You cannot hide behind your finger."
"Ghanaian","You cannot kill an elephant with bullets of wax."
"Ghanaian","You make a new arrow by comparing it to an old one."
"Ghanaian","Look to the past to help us move forward in the future."
"Ghanaian","No one boasts of what belongs to another."
"Ghanaian","When you are rich, you are resented; when you are poor, you are despised."
"Ghanaian","There is no distinction among the common baskets made of palm branches."
"Ghanaian","The rich man may wear old clothes."
"Ghanaian","The ruin of a nation begins in the homes of its people."
"Ghanaian","The soul of a rich man has no taboos."
"Ghanaian","The strength of the palm tree is in its branches."
"Ghanaian","The surface of the water is beautiful, but it is no good to sleep on."
"Ghanaian","The white man lives in the castle; when he dies, he lies in the ground."
"Ghanaian","The witch is going! The witch is going! but if you are not a witch you don't turn around to look."
"Ghanaian","When a man is coming toward you, you need not say, ""Come here."""
"Ghanaian","There is bound to be a knot in a very long string."
"Ghanaian","When a king has good counsellors, his reign is peaceful."
"Ghanaian","There is no medicine to cure hatred."
"Ghanaian","Times keep changing."
"Ghanaian","Two small antelopes can beat one big one."
"Ghanaian","We must go back and reclaim our past so we can move forward; so we understand why and how we came to be who we are today."
"Ghanaian","What is bad luck for one man is good luck for another."
"Ghanaian","What people get by hard work they don't get for their neighbors."
"Ghanaian","The responsibility of power is like holding an egg. Grasp it too tightly and it will drip through your fingers; hold it too loosely and it will drop and break."
"Ghanaian","The witch kills ""he ate and he did not give me"", but she does not kill, ""he gave me too little."""
"Ghanaian","Every one hates the red ant on a kola nut because he cannot eat or sell it."
"Ghanaian","Hunger is felt by a slave and hunger is felt by a king."
"Ghanaian","Do not call the forest that shelters you a jungle."
"Ghanaian","Don't expect to be offered a chair when you visit a place where the chief himself sits on the floor."
"Ghanaian","Even if the old woman has no teeth, her tiger nuts remain in her own bag."
"Ghanaian","Even the elephant can fan off flies with its short tail."
"Ghanaian","Even though the old man is strong and hearty, he will not live forever."
"Ghanaian","By the time the fool has learned the game, the players have dispersed."
"Ghanaian","Even though the sound of the horn is not pleasant, it is still blown by a man's mouth."
"Ghanaian","By going and coming, a bird weaves its nest."
"Ghanaian","Fire and gunpowder are not bedfellows."
"Ghanaian","Fire and gunpowder do not sleep together."
"Ghanaian","Hate has no medicine."
"Ghanaian","He who falls victim to his enemies can expect no mercy."
"Ghanaian","He who is guilty has much to say."
"Ghanaian","He who seems to be for you may be working against you."
"Ghanaian","However high you lift the kid goat, you place it gently on the ground."
"Ghanaian","Even though the peel of the palm nut has no pulpy substance in it, it is stripped off all the same."
"Ghanaian","A powerful deity is the one to whom sacrifices are offered."
"Ghanaian","Nature gave us two cheeks instead of one to make it easier to eat hot food."
"Ghanaian","Misfortune does not restrict his visits to one day."
"Ghanaian","A child does not laugh at the ugliness of his mother."
"Ghanaian","A child who is to be successful is not reared exclusively on a bed of down."
"Ghanaian","A crab does not beget a bird."
"Ghanaian","A cracked bell can never sound well."
"Ghanaian","Death has the key to open the miser's chest."
"Ghanaian","A knife does not know who is its master."
"Ghanaian","A calf that is sucking does not bellow."
"Ghanaian","A slave does not choose his master."
"Ghanaian","A stranger dances - he does not sing."
"Ghanaian","A woman is a flower in a garden; her husband is the fence around it."
"Ghanaian","A woman is like a blanket: If you cover yourself with it, it bothers you; if you throw it aside you will feel the cold."
"Ghanaian","A woman is like a rat: even if it grows up in your house, it steals from you."
"Ghanaian","A Worthy cause is worth pursuing to the end."
"Ghanaian","An army is driven back by courage and not by insults, however many."
"Ghanaian","A healthy person who begs for food is an insult to a generous farmer."
"Ghanaian","It is the fool's sheep that break loose twice."
"Ghanaian","It is easy to become a monk in one's old age."
"Ghanaian","It is Mr. Old-Man-Monkey who marries Mrs. Old-Woman-Monkey."
"Ghanaian","It is no shame at all to work for money."
"Ghanaian","It is not only one person who bathes in the witch's water."
"Ghanaian","It is not wrong to go back for that which you have forgotten."
"Ghanaian","It is only one bad palm tree that spoils the whole lot of palm wine."
"Ghanaian","If you take your tongue to the pawnshop, you can't redeem it later."
"Ghanaian","It is the fool whose own tomatoes are sold to him."
"Ghanaian","If you go too near your relatives, they will not respect you."
"Ghanaian","It is the wife who knows her husband."
"Ghanaian","It's the fool's sheep that breaks loose twice."
"Ghanaian","Little palm tree, stop crying, you child is the tall palm tree."
"Ghanaian","Money is sharper than a sword."
"Ghanaian","Marriage is like a groundnut: you have to crack them to see what is inside."
"Ghanaian","I will get it because I can, one says with a reason."
"Ghanaian","It is the calm and silent water that drowns a man."
"Ghanaian","If the young palm tree wants to stay alive, it grows next to the odum tree."
"Ghanaian","If a woman gets rich she changes into a man."
"Ghanaian","If an opportunity is not taken when it comes, it passes away."
"Ghanaian","If God breaks your leg, He will teach you how to limp."
"Ghanaian","If power can be bought then sell your mother to get it."
"Ghanaian","If the building of a nest were easy, would the little ""apatipers"" bird roost in the fork of a tree?"
"Ghanaian","If the goat says it will become a sheep, there will always be black spots on its body."
"Ghanaian","If youthful pride were wealth, then every man would have had it in his lifetime."
"Ghanaian","If the strong man has nothing else, he can at least command others."
"Ghanaian","If you find no fish, you have to eat bread."
"Ghanaian","If there were no elephant in the jungle, the buffalo would be a great animal."
"Ghanaian","If things are getting easier, maybe you're headed downhill."
"Ghanaian","If two proverbs are not similar, one is not used to explain the other."
"Ghanaian","If two selfish young men sit next to a pot of water, the water spills out on the ground."
"Ghanaian","If we knew where death resided, we would never stay there."
"Ghanaian","If you are in hiding, don't light a fire."
"Ghanaian","If you come near the river, you will hear the crab cough."
"Ghanaian","If the hunter comes back with mushrooms, don't ask him how his hunt was."
"Ghanaian","Hunger is felt by a slave and hunger is felt by a king."
"Ghanaian","The ruin of a nation begins in the homes of its people."
"Ghanaian","When the cock is drunk, he forgets about the hawk."
"Ghanaian","When a man's coat is threadbare, it is easy to pick a hole in it."
"Ghanaian","When a man is wealthy he may wear an old cloth."
"Ghanaian","Fire and gunpowder do not sleep together."
"Ghanaian","Two small antelopes can beat a big one."
"Ghanaian","A crab does not beget a bird."
"Ghanaian","Rain wets a leopard's skin, but it does not wash out the spots."
"Ghanaian","Only when you have crossed the river can you say the crocodile has a lump on his snout."
"Ghanaian","One falsehood spoils a thousand truths."
"Ghanaian","A cracked bell can never sound well."
"Ghanaian","No one tests the depth of the river with both feet."
"Ghanaian","It is the calm and silent water that drowns a man."
"Ghanaian","If things are getting easier, maybe you're headed downhill."
"Ghanaian","If there were no elephant in the jungle, the buffalo would be a great animal."
"Ghanaian","Hate has no medicine."
"Ghanaian","Do not call the forest that shelters you a jungle."
"Ghanaian","By the time the fool has learned the game, the players have dispersed."
"Ghanaian","One camel does not make fun of another camel's hump."
"Ghanaian","When a man is coming toward you, you need not say, ""Come here."""
"Giryama","The hyena of your own country does not break your bones."
"Giryama","The hyena of your own country does not break your bones."
"Goan","Truth is twelve years old."
"Goan","Distant hills look beautiful; near ones are ugly."
"Goan","You cannot swallow hot milk, nor can you throw it away."
"Goan","Fry the chapati when the pan is hot."
"Goan","The hanging fruit is never too heavy for the creeper to bear."
"Goan","The cobbler's gaze is on the feet."
"Goan","Fry the chapati when the pan is hot."
"Goan","The cobbler's gaze is on the feet."
"Goan","The hanging fruit is never too heavy for the creeper to bear."
"Goan","Truth is twelve years old."
"Goan","You cannot swallow hot milk, nor can you throw it away."
"Goan","Distant hills look beautiful; near ones are ugly."
"Golan","When you see clouds gathering, prepare to catch rainwater."
"Greek","From a thorn comes a rose, and from a rose comes a thorn."
"Greek","First secure an independent income, then practice virtue."
"Greek","Pleasures are transient, honors are immortal."
"Greek","A poor man who takes a rich wife has a ruler, not a wife."
"Greek","Many men know how to flatter, few men know how to praise."
"Greek","One minute of patience, ten years of peace."
"Greek","Success has many friends."
"Greek","Eat and drink with your relatives; do business with strangers."
"Greek","Observe your enemies, for they first find your faults."
"Greek","He who suffers much will know much."
"Greek","All things good to know are difficult to learn."
"Greek","An open enemy is better than a false friend."
"Greek","No need to teach an eagle to fly."
"Greek","He who respects his parents never dies."
"Greek","An iron rod bends while it is hot."
"Greek","The fly sat upon the axle of the chariot-wheel and said ""What a lot of dust I raise!"""
"Greek","Remorse is worse than a beating."
"Greek","Proportion your expenses to what you have, not what you expect."
"Greek","Poor men's words have little weight."
"Greek","Pleasures are transient, honors are immortal."
"Greek","Pleasures are transient -- honors immortal."
"Greek","Pleasure is the greatest incentive to vice."
"Greek","Outside a sheep, inside a wolf."
"Greek","Sometimes you have to throw yourself into the fire to escape from the smoke."
"Greek","Other days, other ways."
"Greek","One word spoken in anger may spoil an entire life."
"Greek","One witness one liar; more witnesses, all liars."
"Greek","One minute of patience, ten years of peace."
"Greek","One minute of patience can mean ten years of peace."
"Greek","Painless poverty is better than embittered wealth."
"Greek","Success isn't how far you got, but the distance you traveled from where you started."
"Greek","One hand washes the other and both wash the face."
"Greek","The best fish hook cannot catch limp cheese."
"Greek","The beginning is the half of every action."
"Greek","Terrifying are the weaknesses of power."
"Greek","Take a young woman for the pleasure of possessing her until she is old."
"Greek","She who laughs not in the morning, laughs not at noon."
"Greek","Sweet is the memory of past labor."
"Greek","Sharing the figs can leave you with none at all."
"Greek","Success is doing what you like and making a living at it."
"Greek","Many men, many minds."
"Greek","Success has many friends."
"Greek","The excess of a virtue is a vice."
"Greek","Son of a priest, grandson of the devil."
"Greek","Someone with an unrelenting heart is his own executioner."
"Greek","Swift gratitude is the sweetest."
"Greek","Nature has given us two ears, two eyes, and but one tongue; to the end we should hear and see more than we speak."
"Greek","When the fox cannot reach the grapes he says they are not ripe."
"Greek","The fox that waits until the chicken falls from the perch dies from hunger."
"Greek","Learn to obey before you command."
"Greek","Learn to walk before you run."
"Greek","Listen to that which is well said even if it is from the mouth of an enemy."
"Greek","Listen to valuable statements even if they come from your enemy's mouth."
"Greek","Live today, forget the past."
"Greek","Man is the measure of all things."
"Greek","Many a pupil has gained more wealth than his master."
"Greek","Many men know how to flatter, few men know how to praise."
"Greek","Men never moan over the opportunities lost to do good, only the opportunities to be bad."
"Greek","Men who have lost heart never yet won a trophy."
"Greek","Milk the cow, but do not pull off the udder."
"Greek","Men prone to tears are good."
"Greek","No one loathes the smell of himself."
"Greek","Old age and treachery will overcome youth and skill."
"Greek","Old age and poverty are wounds that can't be healed."
"Greek","Observe your enemies, for they first find your faults."
"Greek","Nothing will content him who is not content with a little."
"Greek","Nothing is so reckless as a blind horse."
"Greek","Mountains are used to snow."
"Greek","Not speech, but facts, convince."
"Greek","My donkey is dead; let no more grass grow."
"Greek","No need to teach an eagle to fly."
"Greek","No mill, no meal."
"Greek","Never give a sword to a fool or power to an unjust man."
"Greek","Never consult a doctor who has never been ill himself."
"Greek","Neither promise wax to the saint, nor cakes to the child."
"Greek","Old men are twice children."
"Greek","Nothing in excess."
"Greek","Kindness begets kindness."
"Greek","What is good to know is difficult to learn."
"Greek","Who hunts two hares will catch neither."
"Greek","Who ceases to be a friend never was one."
"Greek","Where there is love there is no darkness."
"Greek","Where there is a sea there are pirates."
"Greek","Whoever feeds the wolf in the winter will be eaten by him in the spring."
"Greek","When the gods are angry with a man, they give him what he asks for."
"Greek","Without a general an army is lost."
"Greek","When the devil grows poor he becomes a tax collector."
"Greek","When God throws the dice are loaded."
"Greek","When at a loss how to go on, cough."
"Greek","Whatever kind of word thou speakest, the like shalt thou bear."
"Greek","Whatever is good to know is difficult to learn."
"Greek","When God throws the dice, they are loaded."
"Greek","When you go to bed with a clear head, you will not get up with a headache."
"Greek","You cannot reason with a hungry belly; it has no ears."
"Greek","Young wood makes a hot fire."
"Greek","You will break the bow if you keep it always bent."
"Greek","You must keep quiet or say only things that improve silence."
"Greek","You learn to limp if you live with cripples."
"Greek","You know who the good seamen are when the storm comes."
"Greek","Who wouldn't lick his fingers when they have been dipped in honey?"
"Greek","You easily forget the eyes that don't see you any more."
"Greek","Welcome is the best cheer."
"Greek","You can't shake hands with a clenched fist."
"Greek","You can't hide behind your finger."
"Greek","You can tell who the good seamen are during a storm."
"Greek","Wonders will never cease."
"Greek","Wonder is the beginning of wisdom."
"Greek","Women are as changeable as the sea."
"Greek","You have to put a young girl onto an old man."
"Greek","The old age of an eagle is better than the youth of a sparrow."
"Greek","What is true is no more sure than the probable."
"Greek","The unknown is ever imagined."
"Greek","The tongue has no bones, yet it breaks bones."
"Greek","The style is the man himself."
"Greek","The sins we often regret are the sins we never commit."
"Greek","They sowed the seed of an ""if' but it didn't germinate."
"Greek","The people make the town."
"Greek","They throw stones at the walnut trees, but not at the maple."
"Greek","The net of the sleeper catches fish."
"Greek","The more the mother-in-law drinks the more friendly is her greeting."
"Greek","The knee is closer than the calf."
"Greek","The house of envy lies in the lowest hollows, golden, sunless, breathed upon by no wind, grim and filled full of inert chill, and lacking warmth, is always roiled in fog."
"Greek","The heart that loves is always young."
"Greek","The grumbling mother-in-law forgets that she once was a bride."
"Greek","The rest of the world does not know what newlyweds know."
"Greek","To deceive a diplomat speak the truth, he has no experience with it."
"Greek","We must endure what fortune sends."
"Greek","We have two ears and one mouth that we may listen the more and talk the less."
"Greek","We became gravediggers but nobody dies anymore."
"Greek","Under every stone sleeps a scorpion."
"Greek","Truth lies at the bottom of a well."
"Greek","There's many a slip 'twixt the cup and the lip."
"Greek","To have five drachmas in the hand is better than ten drachmas on paper."
"Greek","The frog wanted to be an ox and swelled up until he burst."
"Greek","Time is the best adviser."
"Greek","Time is a river of passing events -- a rushing torrent."
"Greek","Those who fight with silver spears are sure of their victory."
"Greek","Thinking evil is much the same as doing it."
"Greek","Think with the wise, but talk with the vulgar."
"Greek","Think not on what you lack as much as on what you have."
"Greek","To rebel in season is not to rebel."
"Greek","Before you can score, you must first have a goal."
"Greek","Affairs sleep soundly when fortune is present."
"Greek","After the war, aid."
"Greek","Age brings experience, and a good mind wisdom."
"Greek","Alexander the Great was not very tall."
"Greek","Alexander the Great wasn't tall."
"Greek","All receive advice. Only the wise profit from it."
"Greek","All things good to know are difficult to learn."
"Greek","An eagle's old age is worth a sparrow's youth."
"Greek","An iron rod bends while it is hot."
"Greek","An old cat likes young mice."
"Greek","An old enemy never becomes a friend."
"Greek","An open enemy is better than a false friend."
"Greek","Appear always what you are and a little less."
"Greek","Eat and drink with your relatives; do business with strangers."
"Greek","Character is habit long continued."
"Greek","Don't trouble a quiet snake."
"Greek","Don't keep any secrets of yourself from yourself."
"Greek","Do not lean on a worm-eaten staff."
"Greek","Do not compare a fly with an elephant."
"Greek","Deeds are fruits, words are only leaves."
"Greek","Ask for advice but do what you think is best."
"Greek","Curses are like chickens; they come home to roost."
"Greek","Be thine enemy an ant, see in him an elephant."
"Greek","Birth, ancestry, and that which you yourself have not achieved can hardly be called your own."
"Greek","Better the friend we can see than the money we cannot."
"Greek","Better the first of its kind than the last."
"Greek","Better a sick body than an ignorant mind."
"Greek","Better a drop of wisdom than an ocean of gold."
"Greek","A young man should not marry yet, an old man not at all."
"Greek","Death is never at a loss for occasions."
"Greek","A fat belly did not invent gun powder."
"Greek","Add not fire to fire."
"Greek","A library is a repository of medicine for the mind."
"Greek","A lazy tailor finds his thread too long."
"Greek","A good bird begins chirping while in the egg."
"Greek","A goat thief came along and they put him in jail."
"Greek","A mad bull is not to be tied up with a packthread."
"Greek","A fox is not caught twice in the same snare."
"Greek","A man with a skinny wife is a deceitful man."
"Greek","A drowning man takes hold of his own hair."
"Greek","A drop of wisdom is better than a sea of gold."
"Greek","A dove has no place amongst the crows."
"Greek","A different man, a different taste."
"Greek","A cat with gloves never catches mice."
"Greek","A beard signifies lice, not brains."
"Greek","A gift, though small, is welcome."
"Greek","A society grows great when old men plant trees in whose shade they know they shall never sit."
"Greek","A stout bearded woman always bears something malicious."
"Greek","A word out of season may mar a whole lifetime."
"Greek","A woman prefers a man without money to money without a man."
"Greek","A wheel that turns gathers no rust."
"Greek","A truth spoken before its time is dangerous."
"Greek","A lucky person is someone who plants pebbles and harvests potatoes."
"Greek","Know all and you will pardon all."
"Greek","Act quickly, think slowly."
"Greek","Know yourself."
"Greek","A real scoundrel turned up and they took off their hats to him."
"Greek","A priest blesses his own bread first."
"Greek","A poor man who takes a rich wife has a ruler, not a wife."
"Greek","A miser is ever in want."
"Greek","A miser and a liar bargain quickly."
"Greek","A thousand people cannot undress a naked person."
"Greek","If all the bees made honey, there would be enough for even gypsies to eat."
"Greek","He who thinks the worst usually is right."
"Greek","Ignorance of one's misfortunes is clear gain."
"Greek","If you wish to be good, first believe that you are bad."
"Greek","If you steal something small you are a petty thief, but if you steal millions you are a gentleman of society."
"Greek","If you cannot catch a fish, do not blame the sea."
"Greek","Ill beef ne'er made gude broo."
"Greek","If deeds are wanting, all words appear mere vanity and emptiness."
"Greek","Ill-timed laughter is a dangerous evil."
"Greek","If all men were just, there would be no need of valour."
"Greek","If advice will not improve him, neither will the rod."
"Greek","I send thee myrrh, not that thou mayest be by it perfumed, but it perfumed by thee."
"Greek","Eat beans for lunch and have no friends at the dinner table."
"Greek","I feel pain that envy is exchanged for beautiful deeds."
"Greek","He who wants to be happy must stay at home."
"Greek","If it were not for hope, the heart would break."
"Greek","It is better to be envied than pitied."
"Greek","A small evil may be a great good."
"Greek","Kindheartedness and honesty can be expected only from the poor."
"Greek","Keep no secrets of thyself from thyself."
"Greek","It is useless to knock at the door of a deaf man."
"Greek","It is not what they profess but what they practice that makes them good."
"Greek","Ignorance of the law is no excuse for breaking it."
"Greek","It is easier to talk than to hold one's tongue."
"Greek","He who would be happy should stay at home."
"Greek","It is better in times of need to have a friend rather than money."
"Greek","In times of difficulty, friendship is on trial."
"Greek","In the young, silence is better than speech."
"Greek","In hospitality, the chief thing is the good will."
"Greek","In business you need two Jews for one Greek, two Greeks for one Syrian and two Syrians for one Armenian."
"Greek","In baiting a mousetrap with cheese, always leave room for the mouse."
"Greek","It is not good for all our wishes to be filled; through sickness we recognize the value of health; through evil, the value of good; through hunger, the value of food; through exertion, the value of rest."
"Greek","Every country is a fatherland."
"Greek","He who suffers much will know much."
"Greek","For lazy people it is always party time."
"Greek","I hate a jovial table companion with a good memory."
"Greek","First secure an independent income, then practice virtue."
"Greek","Everybody wants to be somebody; nobody wants to grow."
"Greek","From a thorn comes a rose, and from a rose comes a thorn."
"Greek","Every story can be told in different ways."
"Greek","From a broken violin do not expect fine music."
"Greek","Even from an enemy a man can learn wisdom."
"Greek","Even from a foe a man may learn wisdom."
"Greek","Envy accomplishes nothing."
"Greek","Endeavor to bear the ignorance of fortune with patience."
"Greek","Empty barrels and insignificant people always make the most noise."
"Greek","Either remain quiet, or say things that improve the silence."
"Greek","Every tale can be told in a different way."
"Greek","He who is born in jail loves jail."
"Greek","He who revealeth his secret maketh himself a slave."
"Greek","He who respects his parents never dies."
"Greek","Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, prepare to die."
"Greek","He who is outside the door has already a good part of his journey behind him."
"Greek","Give me today and you may keep tomorrow."
"Greek","He who has been angry becomes cool again."
"Greek","He who eats and drinks with the rich leaves the table hungry."
"Greek","He who cannot bear misfortune is truly unfortunate."
"Greek","Greeks only agree with each other about going to the toilet."
"Greek","Great birth is a very poor dish at table."
"Greek","Great abilities produce great vices as well as virtues."
"Greek","Gray hair is a sign of age, not wisdom."
"Greek","Gray hair is a sign of age, not of wisdom."
"Greek","Good accounts make good friends."
"Greek","He who plunders with a little boat is a pirate; he who plunders with a fleet is a conqueror."
"Greek","He who cannot bear misfortune is truly unfortunate."
"Greek","Old men are twice children."
"Greek","Many men know how to flatter, few men know how to praise."
"Greek","Success is doing what you like and making a living at it."
"Greek","Success has many friends."
"Greek","Pleasures are transient, honors are immortal."
"Greek","Pleasure is the greatest incentive to vice."
"Greek","Painless poverty is better than embittered wealth."
"Greek","Sweet is the memory of past labor."
"Greek","One minute of patience, ten years of peace."
"Greek","Swift gratitude is the sweetest."
"Greek","Old age and treachery will overcome youth and skill."
"Greek","Old age and poverty are wounds that can't be healed."
"Greek","Observe your enemies, for they first find your faults."
"Greek","No need to teach an eagle to fly."
"Greek","Men prone to tears are good."
"Greek","Men never moan over the opportunities lost to do good, only the opportunities to be bad."
"Greek","Many men, many minds."
"Greek","One witness one liar; more witnesses, all liars."
"Greek","To deceive a diplomat speak the truth, he has no experience with it."
"Greek","Young wood makes a hot fire."
"Greek","You will break the bow if you keep it always bent."
"Greek","You cannot reason with a hungry belly; it has no ears."
"Greek","Wonders will never cease."
"Greek","Wonder is the beginning of wisdom."
"Greek","Where there is a sea there are pirates."
"Greek","Success isn't how far you got, but the distance you traveled from where you started."
"Greek","To rebel in season is not to rebel."
"Greek","The net of the sleeper catches fish."
"Greek","Think with the wise, but talk with the vulgar."
"Greek","Think not on what you lack as much as on what you have."
"Greek","Great abilities produce great vices as well as virtues."
"Greek","The tongue has no bones, yet it breaks bones."
"Greek","A different man, a different taste."
"Greek","The heart that loves is always young."
"Greek","The beginning is the half of every action."
"Greek","When the fox cannot reach the grapes he says they are not ripe."
"Greek","Act quickly, think slowly."
"Greek","Many a pupil has gained more wealth than his master."
"Greek","Eat and drink with your relatives; do business with strangers."
"Greek","Death is never at a loss for occasions."
"Greek","Character is habit long continued."
"Greek","Before you can score you must first have a goal."
"Greek","An open enemy is better than a false friend."
"Greek","First secure an independent income, then practice virtue."
"Greek","After the war, aid."
"Greek","From a thorn comes a rose, and from a rose comes a thorn."
"Greek","A miser is ever in want."
"Greek","A miser and a liar bargain quickly."
"Greek","A mad bull is not to be tied up with a packthread."
"Greek","A lucky person is someone who plants pebbles and harvests potatoes."
"Greek","A library is a repository of medicine for the mind."
"Greek","A gift, though small, is welcome."
"Greek","The unknown is ever imagined."
"Greek","All things good to know are difficult to learn."
"Greek","Ignorance of the law is no excuse for breaking it."
"Greek","Live today, forget the past."
"Greek","Learn to walk before you run."
"Greek","Learn to obey before you command."
"Greek","Kindness begets kindness."
"Greek","It is easier to talk than to hold one's tongue."
"Greek","In hospitality, the chief thing is the good will."
"Greek","Even from a foe a man may learn wisdom."
"Greek","Ill beef ne'er made gude broo."
"Greek","Good accounts make good friends."
"Greek","Ignorance of one's misfortunes is clear gain."
"Greek","If all men were just, there would be no need of valour."
"Greek","If advice will not improve him, neither will the rod."
"Greek","I send thee myrrh, not that thou mayest be by it perfumed, but it perfumed by thee."
"Greek","He who revealeth his secret maketh himself a slave."
"Greek","He who respects his parents never dies."
"Greek","Great birth is a very poor dish at table."
"Greek","Gray hair is a sign of age, not wisdom."
"Greek","Ill-timed laughter is a dangerous evil."
"Guatemala","Everyone is the age of their heart."
"Guatemalan","He who doesn't risk a penny doesn't make a peso."
"Guatemalan","Your true enemy lives in your own house."
"Guatemalan","There's no ill that doesn't turn out for the better."
"Guatemalan","The deepest waters make the least noise."
"Guatemalan","That which is said at the table should be wrapped up in the tablecloth."
"Guatemalan","It's not the fault of the parrot, but of the one who teaches him to talk."
"Guatemalan","Everyone is the age of their heart."
"Guatemalan","Don't despise someone for telling the truth."
"Guatemalan","Do not bear ill will toward those who tell you the truth."
"Guatemalan","Better to eat beans in peace than to eat meat in distress."
"Guatemalan","A weapon is an enemy even to its owner."
"Guatemalan","He who avoids the temptations avoids the sin."
"Guatemalan","Return property to its owner, and your sleep will be peaceful."
"Guatemalan","It's not the fault of the parrot, but of the one who teaches him to talk."
"Guinea","One camel does not make fun of the other camel's hump."
"Guinea","When a needle falls into a deep well, many people will look into the well, but few will be ready to go down after it."
"Guinea","To make preparations does not spoil the trip."
"Guinea","To have two eyes is cause for pride; but to have one eye is better than to have none."
"Guinea","The man on his feet carries off the share of the man sitting down."
"Guinea","A camel does not joke about the hump of another camel."
"Guinea","He who does not cultivate his field, will die of hunger."
"Guinea","Around a flowering tree, one finds many insects."
"Guinea","A good deed is something one returns."
"Guinea","A cow that has no tail should not try to chase away flies."
"Guinea","Knowledge is like a garden: if it is not cultivated, it cannot be harvested."
"Guinea","The toad likes water, but not when it's boiling."
"Guinean","He who has not yet reached the opposite shore should not make fun of him who is drowning."
"Guinean","The man on his feet carries off the share of the man sitting down."
"Guinean","The man who builds his own throne rules over a desert."
"Guinean","The man who can't dance says the band can't play."
"Guinean","The toad likes water, but not when it's boiling."
"Guinean","To have two eyes can be cause for pride; but to have one eye is better than to have none."
"Guinean","When a needle falls into a deep well, many people will look into the well, but few will be ready to go down after it."
"Guinean","Save your fowl before it stops flapping."
"Guinean","To make preparations does not spoil the trip."
"Guinean","When you wait for tomorrow it never comes. When you don't wait for it tomorrow still comes."
"Guinean","A cow that has no tail should not try to chase away flies."
"Guinean","No matter how long the winter, spring is sure to follow."
"Guinean","Knowledge is like a garden: if it is not cultivated, it cannot be harvested."
"Guinean","He, who does not cultivate his field, will die of hunger."
"Guinean","He who has not yet reached the opposite shore should not make fun of him who is drowning."
"Guinean","He who has done evil, expects evil."
"Guinean","For news of the heart, ask the face."
"Guinean","Around a flowering tree, there are many insects."
"Guinean","A good deed is something one returns."
"Guinean","One camel does not make fun of the other camel's hump."
"Guinean","When you don't wait for it tomorrow still comes."
"Guinean","The man who can't dance says the band can't play."
"Guinean","Save your fowl before it stops flapping."
"Guinean","He who has done evil, expects evil."
"Guinean","For news of the heart, ask the face."
"Guinean","The man on his feet carries off the share of the man sitting down."
"Guinean","The man who builds his own throne rules over a desert."
"Guyanan","Tald ob de debil an you heeh he wings."
"Guyanan","Cat no deh, ratta tek over."
"Gypsy","The dog that digs deepest finds the bones."
"Gypsy","The patient thief is as a tree whose root runs deep as he waits for the sweet fruit.."
"Gypsy","The gypsy church was made of pork and the dogs ate it."
"Gypsy","The fat woman gives the sweetest ride."
"Gypsy","The dog that trots about finds a bone."
"Gypsy","One mad man makes many madmen: many madmen make madness."
"Gypsy","The stick that breaks the window does not kill a dog."
"Gypsy","The buyer needs a hundred eyes, the horse thief not one."
"Gypsy","Stay where there are songs."
"Gypsy","Sometimes you get the bear and sometimes the bear gets you."
"Gypsy","Our caravan is our family, and the world is our family."
"Gypsy","The winter will ask what we did all summer."
"Gypsy","One madman makes many madmen and many madmen makes madness."
"Gypsy","When your drunk the old woman tastes like a virgin.."
"Gypsy","Never eat at the table of a Priest."
"Gypsy","One man may better steal a horse than another look on."
"Gypsy","Where the scythe cuts and the sock rives, no more fairies and bee-hives."
"Gypsy","Neither money nor the devil can remain in peace."
"Gypsy","A man must put grain in the ground before he can cut the harvest."
"Gypsy","You have to dig deep to bury your daddy."
"Gypsy","You don't kill a gypsy by cutting him in ten pieces -- you only make ten more gypsies."
"Gypsy","You cannot stop a whore, not even with a hundred horses."
"Gypsy","When the sea turned to honey, the poor man lost his spoon."
"Gypsy","Without wood the fire would die."
"Gypsy","The world is a ladder, in which some go up and others go down."
"Gypsy","Where rich people can make honest money, poor people have to steal."
"Gypsy","When you are given, eat, when you are beaten, run away."
"Gypsy","When do we have a day of fast? When there is no bread and ham in the larder."
"Gypsy","We are all wanderers on this earth. Our hearts are full of wonder, and our souls are deep with dreams."
"Gypsy","They that burn you for a witch lose all their coals."
"Gypsy","There are such things as false truths and honest lies."
"Gypsy","You can count the apples on a tree but you can't count the trees from one apple."
"Gypsy","As the crow is made for stewing the dog is made for kicking."
"Gypsy","Everybody sees only his own dish."
"Gypsy","Credit is better than money."
"Gypsy","Children will tell you what they do, men what they think, and older people what they have seen and heard."
"Gypsy","Bury me on my feet, I have spent my entire life on my knees."
"Gypsy","Burn your enemies caravan and you burn you future."
"Gypsy","Go in God's name--so you ride no witches."
"Gypsy","Bad people don't sing."
"Gypsy","After bad luck comes good fortune."
"Gypsy","A witch-wife and an evil is three-halfpence worse than the devil."
"Gypsy","A tear in the eye is a wound in the heart."
"Gypsy","A tear in the eye is the wound of the heart."
"Gypsy","A lonely old crow, see someone you know, Fly to your right, sure to be right, And if you are hawking, money before night."
"Gypsy","A hairy man's a geary man, but a hairy wife's a witch."
"Gypsy","May your clothes rip and wear out, but may you live on in good health and fulfillment."
"Gypsy","Beauty cannot be eaten with a spoon."
"Gypsy","In the village without dogs the farmers walk without sticks."
"Gypsy","A gypsy only tells the truth once in his life but he regrets it afterwards."
"Gypsy","Good horses can't be of a bad color."
"Gypsy","May the witches ride off with your manhood him."
"Gypsy","It is better to be the head of a mouse, then the tail of a lion."
"Gypsy","May you have a lawsuit in which you know you are in the right."
"Gypsy","In the hour of your greatest success are sown the seeds of your own destruction."
"Gypsy","If you stab out the eye of thy neighbor cut off two finger and dip them in honey. Cook them in lemon curd and present them to his family in a pigeon pie. If they dine on a full moon his eye will sprout again from it's socket."
"Gypsy","Happiness you pay for is to be found everywhere."
"Gypsy","Gypsy gold does not chink and glitter, it gleams in the sun and neighs in the dark."
"Gypsy","I have two masters -- God and the devil; I work for the devil until lunch then I follow the Lord."
"Gypsy","It is easier to milk a cow that stands still."
"Gypsy","He who willingly gives you a finger will also give you the whole hand."
"Gypsy","He who is late may gnaw the bones."
"Gypsy","He that has a white horse and a fair wife need never want for trouble."
"Gypsy","If a man looks upon your wife pluck out his eye and cook it in a goodly stew. If he eats the stew his manhood will wither and fall off in the next moon."
"Gypsy","A man must put grain in the ground before he can cut the harvest."
"Gypsy","May you have a lawsuit in which you know you are in the right."
"Haida","We do not inherit the earth from our ancestors; we borrow it from our children."
"Haida","We do not inherit the earth from our ancestors; we borrow it from our children."
"Haitian","If you want your eggs hatched, sit on them yourself."
"Haitian","If work were good for you, the rich would leave none for the poor."
"Haitian","The child says nothing, but what it heard by the fire."
"Haitian","The fish don't see the water."
"Haitian","The frog's pee adds to the river."
"Haitian","The dog has four feet, but he does not walk in four roads at the same time."
"Haitian","The dead do not know the value of white sheets."
"Haitian","The crab that walks too far falls into the pot."
"Haitian","The crab that walks miles too far will fall into the pot."
"Haitian","The constitution is paper, bayonets are steel."
"Haitian","The donkey sweats so the horse can be decorated with lace."
"Haitian","The child of a tiger is a tiger."
"Haitian","Salt does not brag that it is salted."
"Haitian","Poor people entertain with the heart."
"Haitian","Only the knife knows the heart of a pineapple."
"Haitian","No matter how beautiful the shoes are, they still have to go on the ground."
"Haitian","Many hands make a workload lighter."
"Haitian","Little snakes need to grow in hiding."
"Haitian","Little by little the bird makes his nest."
"Haitian","The goat that has many owners will be left to die in the sun."
"Haitian","You don't buy a cat in a bag."
"Haitian","Little by little, the bird builds its nest."
"Haitian","True courage is knowing how to suffer."
"Haitian","You don't throw rocks at a green mango."
"Haitian","You don't know a man before he takes a woman."
"Haitian","The bocor gives you a protective charm, but he doesn't tell you to sleep in the middle of the highway."
"Haitian","When you know that people are watching you, there are things that you don't do."
"Haitian","It's because the rat knows what he does at night that he doesn't go out during day."
"Haitian","When the character of a man is not clear to you, look at his friends."
"Haitian","When the cat's stomach is full, the rat's back is bitter."
"Haitian","When god chooses to give, it shall come in through the door."
"Haitian","When you curse your stepmother, your mother will be the victim."
"Haitian","Two skinny people don't fry."
"Haitian","The goat which has many owners will be left to die in the sun."
"Haitian","To stumble is not to fall."
"Haitian","To speak French doesn't mean you are smart."
"Haitian","The way you got married is not the way you'll get divorced."
"Haitian","The rat knows full well that, if the cat is old and feeble, its claws are not."
"Haitian","The pencil of God has not an eraser."
"Haitian","The pencil of God has no eraser."
"Haitian","The macaco doesn't climb up the acacia tree two times."
"Haitian","The good white man dies, the bad one remains."
"Haitian","What you deserve you don't have to ask for."
"Haitian","All food is fit to eat, but not all words are fit to speak."
"Haitian","Children aren't dogs; adults aren't gods."
"Haitian","Beyond mountains, there are more mountains."
"Haitian","The child saith nothing but what he heard at the fireside."
"Haitian","Better rags than nakedness."
"Haitian","Being careful is not being a coward."
"Haitian","Behind the gentle barb lies the deadly barb."
"Haitian","Beat the dog; wait for its master."
"Haitian","Arriving and leaving, hoping and remembering, that's what life consists of."
"Haitian","Children have wide ears and long tongues."
"Haitian","An empty sack cannot stand up."
"Haitian","Beyond the mountain is another mountain."
"Haitian","Age and marriage tame the beast."
"Haitian","A woman is like mahogany: the older she is, the better she is."
"Haitian","A stumble is not a fall."
"Haitian","A single finger cannot catch fleas."
"Haitian","A silk dress doesn't mean clean undergarments."
"Haitian","A monkey never thinks her baby's ugly."
"Haitian","A mirror doesn't know how to lie."
"Haitian","A foreseen disaster should not kill the handicapped."
"Haitian","Ignorance doesn't necessarily kill you but it makes you sweat a lot."
"Haitian","An empty sack doesn't stand up."
"Haitian","If someone sweats for you, you change his shirt."
"Haitian","Ignorance doesn't kill you, but it does make you sweat a lot."
"Haitian","If you want your eggs hatched, sit on them yourself."
"Haitian","If you want to please, never say things are going well."
"Haitian","If you sleep under a tree, you can't prevent the leaf from falling on you."
"Haitian","If ye do wrang, mak amends."
"Haitian","If work were good for you, the rich would leave none for the poor."
"Haitian","Better to take your time on the way, if you bring good news."
"Haitian","If the lizard were good to eat, it would not be so common."
"Haitian","Children learn to creep ere they can learn to go."
"Haitian","'hurry' and 'well' never go hand in hand."
"Haitian","Eggs have no business dancing with stones."
"Haitian","Do not insult the mother alligator until after you have crossed the river."
"Haitian","If they had cereal, they'd want gumbo."
"Haitian","Don't insult the alligator until you've crossed the river."
"Haitian","I would rather be deceived by an intelligent person than by a jackass."
"Haitian","Getting married with a woman is nothing; it's assuming the responsibility of marriage that counts."
"Haitian","God has only one measure for all people."
"Haitian","Hang your knapsack where you can reach it."
"Haitian","Hello is your passport."
"Haitian","Hunger is misery; a full stomach is trouble."
"Haitian","When the cat's stomach is full, the rat's back is bitter."
"Haitian","The child of a tiger is a tiger."
"Haitian","The child saith nothing but what he heard at the fireside."
"Haitian","The crab that walks too far falls into the pot."
"Haitian","Poor people entertain with the heart."
"Haitian","The pencil of God has no eraser."
"Haitian","The child says nothing, but what it heard by the fire."
"Haitian","When the character of a man is not clear to you, look at his friends."
"Haitian","The goat which has many owners will be left to die in the sun."
"Haitian","If ye do wrang, mak amends."
"Haitian","If work were good for you, the rich would leave none for the poor."
"Haitian","If someone sweats for you, you change his shirt."
"Haitian","Children learn to creep ere they can learn to go."
"Haitian","Children have wide ears and long tongues."
"Haitian","Children aren't dogs; adults aren't gods."
"Haitian","Beyond the mountain is another mountain."
"Haitian","Beat the dog; wait for its master."
"Haitian","An empty sack cannot stand up."
"Haitian","A stumble is not a fall."
"Haitian","Ignorance doesn't kill you, but it does make you sweat a lot."
"Haitian","The donkey sweats so the horse can be decorated with lace."
"Hasidic","The prosperity of a country is in accordance with its treatment of the aged."
"Hasidic","The man who thinks he can live without others is mistaken; the one who thinks others can't live without him is even more deluded."
"Hasidic","The community of living is the carriage of the Lord."
"Hasidic","One who thinks that money can do everything is likely to do anything for money."
"Hasidic","While we pursue happiness, we flee from contentment."
"Hasidic","One who thinks that money can do everything is likely to do anything for money."
"Hasidic","He who fights and runs away may live to fight another day."
"Hasidic","He who feels no compassion will become insane."
"Hasidic","Fear the man who fears you."
"Hasidic","Fear only two: God, and the man who has no fear of God."
"Hasidic","Be the master of your will and the slave of your conscience."
"Hasidic","One who looks for a friend without faults will have none."
"Hasidic","Lies are usually caused by undue fear of men."
"Hasidic","He who fights and runs away may live to fight another day."
"Hasidic","The prosperity of a country is in accordance with its treatment of the aged."
"Hasidic","Lies are usually caused by undue fear of men."
"Hasidic","He who feels no compassion will become insane."
"Hasidic","One who looks for a friend without faults will have none."
"Hatian","A Monkey never thinks her baby is ugly."
"Hatian","If work were a good thing, the rich would have grabbed it a long time ago."
"Hatian","The donkey sweats so the horse can be decorated with lace."
"Hatian","To speak French does not mean you are smart."
"Hausa","If you do not agree with the phases of the moon, get a ladder and repair it."
"Hausa","You must live within your sacred truth."
"Hausa","When the hyena drinks, the dog can only look on."
"Hausa","The cry of the hyena and the loss of the goat are one."
"Hausa","Man only ever scores nine out of ten."
"Hausa","Every fault is laid at the door of the hyena, but it does not steal a bale of cloth."
"Hausa","Even sugar itself may spoil a good dish."
"Hausa","Even silence speaks."
"Hausa","Accomplishment of purpose is better than making a profit."
"Hausa","Abundance will make cotton pull a stone."
"Hausa","If the owner of the goat is not afraid to travel by night, the owner of a hyena certainly will not be."
"Hausa","Strategy is better than strength."
"Hausa","Accomplishment of purpose is better than making a profit."
"Hausa","Even sugar itself may spoil a good dish."
"Hausa","Every fault is laid at the door of the hyena, but it does not steal a bale of cloth."
"Hausa","If the owner of the goat is not afraid to travel by night, the owner of a hyena certainly will not be."
"Hausa","If you do not agree with the phases of the moon, get a ladder and repair it."
"Hausa","Man only ever scores nine out of ten."
"Hausa","The cry of the hyena and the loss of the goat are one."
"Hausa","When the hyena drinks, the dog can only look on."
"Hausa","Abundance will make cotton pull a stone."
"Hausa","Even silence speaks."
"Hawaiian","Rains always follow the forest."
"Hawaiian","The leopard does not change his spots."
"Hawaiian","The Lehua blossom unfolds when the rains tread on it."
"Hawaiian","The growth of love is the essence within the soul."
"Hawaiian","The great night that provides, the great day that neglects."
"Hawaiian","The fish at the top edge of the fire."
"Hawaiian","The awkward person always breaks the board in riding on the surf."
"Hawaiian","Sweet tongues buy horses on credit."
"Hawaiian","Paddle together, bail, paddle; paddle, bail; paddle towards the land."
"Hawaiian","The rain follows after the forest."
"Hawaiian","Unfolded by the water are faces of the flowers. Flowers thrive where there is water, as thriving people are found where living conditions are good."
"Hawaiian","Someone who speaks about ""my inferiors"" doesn't have them."
"Hawaiian","The rippling water where birds gather."
"Hawaiian","The stars are the eyes of heaven."
"Hawaiian","There is life in the rain."
"Hawaiian","Those above are going down, those below are going up."
"Hawaiian","Unite to move forward."
"Hawaiian","When love is given, love should be returned, anger gives no life."
"Hawaiian","When one dreams of a canoe, there will be no luck the next day."
"Hawaiian","When the rain fell at Puuohaloa where were you."
"Hawaiian","Where the hands move, there let the eyes follow."
"Hawaiian","While the sun is still up, let people work that the earth may live."
"Hawaiian","You are a chief because of your people."
"Hawaiian","No one is hurt by doing the right thing."
"Hawaiian","Wield the paddles together."
"Hawaiian","Continue to do good, and heaven will come down to you."
"Hawaiian","A bad one breaks his board."
"Hawaiian","A coral reef hardens into land."
"Hawaiian","A coral reef strengthens into land."
"Hawaiian","A full sail helped him to arrive."
"Hawaiian","A good surfer will not get wet."
"Hawaiian","A heart as big as a house."
"Hawaiian","A person who talks about his inferiors hasn't any."
"Hawaiian","Abuse is like a god that destroys his master."
"Hawaiian","Watch out lest the canoe land on a rocky reef."
"Hawaiian","All knowledge is not taught in one school."
"Hawaiian","Be one in love."
"Hawaiian","Dip your paddle in and join the effort."
"Hawaiian","If you plan for a year, plant kalo. If you plan for ten years, plant koa. If you plan for one-hundred years, teach the children."
"Hawaiian","Love is worn like a wreath through the summers and the winters."
"Hawaiian","Love is like fog -- there is no mountain on which it does not rest."
"Hawaiian","Knowledge is gained in many schools."
"Hawaiian","In the word is life, in the word is death."
"Hawaiian","No canoe is defiant on a stormy day."
"Hawaiian","In language there is life, in language there is death."
"Hawaiian","Do not allow sins to get beyond creeping."
"Hawaiian","Hush, lest the wind arise."
"Hawaiian","Hi is as albatross that observes the ocean."
"Hawaiian","Go inquire of the other birds."
"Hawaiian","Enjoy the beat of other drums, but this is my song."
"Hawaiian","In the end...we will take care of only what we love; We will love only what we understand; We will understand only what we are taught."
"Hawaiian","The rain follows after the forest."
"Hawaiian","Those above are going down, those below are going up."
"Hawaiian","The leopard does not change his spots."
"Hawaiian","The Lehua blossom unfolds when the rains tread on it."
"Hawaiian","Paddle together, bail, paddle; paddle, bail; paddle towards the land."
"Hawaiian","No one is hurt by doing the right thing."
"Hawaiian","Abuse is like a god that destroys his master."
"Hawaiian","A coral reef hardens into land."
"Hawaiian","Unite to move forward."
"Haya","The talker talks and causes death in his family."
"Haya","The talker talks and causes death in his family."
"Hebraic","If I am not to myself, who will be? And when I am to myself, who am I? And if not now, when?"
"Hebraic","You don't always miss the bus. Sometimes, it misses you."
"Hebraic","The hat burns on the head of the thief."
"Hebraic","A cow, A cow."
"Hebraic","Better be a tail for the lions than the head of the foxes."
"Hebraic","After death, say holy."
"Hebrew","The costliest clock can show only sixty minutes in every hour."
"Hebrew","The hearts of fools are in their mouths but the mouths of the wise are in their hearts."
"Hebrew","The heart sees better than the eye."
"Hebrew","The greatest wisdom of all is kindness."
"Hebrew","The greatest charity is to enable the poor to earn a living."
"Hebrew","Ten measures of beauty descended on the world; nine went to jerusalem, and one to the rest of the world."
"Hebrew","The greatest and rarest talent is to love everything good."
"Hebrew","That's how the world is: wolves kill sheep."
"Hebrew","The gambler breaks all of the ten commandments."
"Hebrew","The day is short and work lasts a long time."
"Hebrew","The court is most merciful when the accused is most rich."
"Hebrew","The community is israel's rampart."
"Hebrew","The city, whose physician has the gout, is in a bad state."
"Hebrew","The book and the sword descended from heaven together."
"Hebrew","The best way to find happiness is not to search for it."
"Hebrew","The best doctor is to be found in hell."
"Hebrew","The beginning of sin is sweet; its end is bitter."
"Hebrew","The air of the land of israel makes one wise."
"Hebrew","The wise man's nakedness is between his loins, and that of the fool between his cheeks."
"Hebrew","The kind man feeds his cat before sitting down to dinner."
"Hebrew","The cure for anxiety about the future is not nostalgia for the past."
"Hebrew","The sun will set without thy assistance."
"Hebrew","The world is sustained by three things: justice, truth and peace."
"Hebrew","The world is in the hands of fools."
"Hebrew","The world is a tavern and the way hereafter is our home."
"Hebrew","The world exists on three things: truth, justice, and peace."
"Hebrew","Rivalry of scholars advances wisdom."
"Hebrew","The well that is most often used gives the purest water."
"Hebrew","Teach your tongue to say: ""I do not know."""
"Hebrew","The truth is a heavy burden that few care to carry."
"Hebrew","The voice of the people is like the voice of the almighty."
"Hebrew","The thief who has no opportunity to steal thinks he is an honest man."
"Hebrew","The loftier and more distant the ideal, the greater its power to lift up the soul."
"Hebrew","The sleep of the wicked people is a benefit for them and a boon to the world."
"Hebrew","The rabbi is just the man who knows the torah - he is not the torah itself."
"Hebrew","The punishment of a liar is that he is never believed, even when he speaks the truth."
"Hebrew","The place honors not the man; it is the man who honors the place."
"Hebrew","The needle, small and thin, can support a man and his family."
"Hebrew","The more you add, the worse it gets."
"Hebrew","The more money, the happier; the more wit, the happier."
"Hebrew","The milk of black goats and white goats is all the same."
"Hebrew","The torah can be interpreted in 49 different ways. god told moses, 'decide according to the majority.'"
"Hebrew","One man differs from another in three things: his voice, his appearance, and his mind."
"Hebrew","Silence heals all ills."
"Hebrew","Poverty runs after the poor, wealth after the rich."
"Hebrew","Poverty is no disgrace, but neither do you have to take pride in it."
"Hebrew","Poverty is a wonderful thing. It sticks to a man after all his friends have forsaken him."
"Hebrew","Physician, heal thyself."
"Hebrew","People worry, and God smiles."
"Hebrew","People hate what they do not understand."
"Hebrew","Partnership is good only with your wife - and there are those who say this too is not certain."
"Hebrew","Promise little and do a lot."
"Hebrew","One person's candle furnishes light for many."
"Hebrew","Promise little and do much."
"Hebrew","Old wine is good for the stomach."
"Hebrew","Of what use is a torch at midday?"
"Hebrew","No proverb is untrue."
"Hebrew","No one is so poor as an ignorant person."
"Hebrew","No marriage contract is made without a quarrel."
"Hebrew","No joy without wine."
"Hebrew","Night was created so that we might consider what we did during the day."
"Hebrew","My friend tells me of my virtue. my enemy notes my fault."
"Hebrew","My fathers planted for me, and I planted for my children."
"Hebrew","Opinions founded on prejudice are always sustained with the greatest violence."
"Hebrew","Silence is a woman's best garment."
"Hebrew","Teach your tongue to say, ""I do not know."""
"Hebrew","Teach your grandame to suck eggs."
"Hebrew","Teach your grandam to spin."
"Hebrew","Teach thy tongue to say, ""I do not know."""
"Hebrew","Talking is silver, silence is golden."
"Hebrew","Sometimes the position does not make the man, but the man makes the position."
"Hebrew","Small children, a headache; big children, heartache."
"Hebrew","Slander slays three persons: the speaker, the spoken to, and the spoken of."
"Hebrew","Pride is the mask we make of our faults."
"Hebrew","Since god could not be everywhere, he created mothers."
"Hebrew","Teach your tongue to say, 'i don't know,' rather than invent something."
"Hebrew","Silence is a fine jewel for a woman, but it is little worn."
"Hebrew","Silence is a fence around wisdom."
"Hebrew","The world rests on three things: the bible, religious worship, and deeds of loving kindness."
"Hebrew","Science without religion is lame; religion without science is blind."
"Hebrew","Three need to be guarded: a patient, a groom, and a bride."
"Hebrew","Respect flies away for the one who pursues it and hunts the person who is fleeing from it."
"Hebrew","Repentance prolongs a man's life."
"Hebrew","Real success is success of the soul."
"Hebrew","Put another way, satan is a person's wish to do evil."
"Hebrew","Slander is more deadly than weapons; weapons wound from close range, slander hurts from a distance."
"Hebrew","When two friends part they have to lock up each other's secrets and throw away the key."
"Hebrew","Whoever can protest against a wrong, and does not, will be punished."
"Hebrew","Who's a hero? he who turns his enemy into his friend."
"Hebrew","Who seeks more than he needs hinders himself from enjoying what he has."
"Hebrew","Who is mighty? One who makes an enemy into a friend."
"Hebrew","Who can find a woman of valor? her price is far above rubies."
"Hebrew","Which is a man's most desirable occupation? the one for which he is most fit."
"Hebrew","Where there is no wine, we need medicine."
"Hebrew","When you're in a strange city, adopt its manners."
"Hebrew","We should bolster the light rather than fight the darkness."
"Hebrew","When two men quarrel, the one who yields first displays the nobler character."
"Hebrew","Whoever has not tasted sinfulness does not qualify for holiness."
"Hebrew","When the wise man gets angry, he stops being wise."
"Hebrew","When the wife is away, the husband is master of the house."
"Hebrew","When swindlers meet a genuinely honest man, they're so astonished they regard him as a greater swindler than themselves."
"Hebrew","When prices drop, buy."
"Hebrew","When a life is at stake, don't follow the majority."
"Hebrew","When a divorced man marries a divorced woman, there are four people in that marital bed."
"Hebrew","When a bribe enters through the front door, honesty departs through the window."
"Hebrew","These three are the marks of a Jew--a tender heart, self-respect, and charity."
"Hebrew","When you have no choice, mobilize the spirit of courage."
"Hebrew","Wine renews the passion of lovers, and the hatred of enemies."
"Hebrew","Eat vegetables and fear no creditors, rather than eat duck and hide."
"Hebrew","More than the jewish people preserved the sabbath, the sabbath preserved them."
"Hebrew","Your health comes first -- you can always hang yourself later."
"Hebrew","Your friend has a friend and the friend of your friend has another friend. Learn how to keep quiet."
"Hebrew","You recognize the truth by its own sound."
"Hebrew","You don't show a fool a job half done."
"Hebrew","Women don't know what a secret is."
"Hebrew","With a good son-in-law you gain a son, with a bad one you lose your daughter, too."
"Hebrew","Whoever cannot lie cannot be a matchmaker."
"Hebrew","Wine tops the list of all medicines."
"Hebrew","Whoever depends on his wife's earnings will not succeed."
"Hebrew","Whom god favors, he tries with affliction."
"Hebrew","Whoever welcomes his friend with a smile, it's as though he gave his friend the finest gifts in the world."
"Hebrew","Whoever teaches his son teaches not only his son but also his son's son, and so on to the end of generations."
"Hebrew","Whoever pursues fame and greatness, they flee from him; whoever shuns greatness, it comes after him."
"Hebrew","Whoever prays loudly, it shows he has little faith."
"Hebrew","Whoever marries for money will have unworthy children."
"Hebrew","Whoever hates a reprimand is stupid."
"Hebrew","Whoever hastens to grow rich will not go unpunished."
"Hebrew","We must not appoint a leader over the community without first consulting the people."
"Hebrew","Wisdom without morality is like a ring without a gem."
"Hebrew","There is no greater beauty than that of logic."
"Hebrew","Three things please a man: a lovely home, a lovely wife, and lovely possessions."
"Hebrew","Three things have a flavor of the world to come: sabbath, the sun, and married love."
"Hebrew","Three things are good in small doses and bad in big ones: yeast, salt, and hesitation."
"Hebrew","Three rebel against the light: the thief, the adulterer, and the bat."
"Hebrew","Those who train themselves in wisdom cultivate true courage."
"Hebrew","There's no rain without thunder, and no children born without pain."
"Hebrew","There is one moral duty that moralists underrate almost criminally - the duty to enjoy god's world."
"Hebrew","There is nothing better than a good reputation."
"Hebrew","Weep for the mourners, not for the dead; they have gone to their rest, and we are left to lament."
"Hebrew","There is no such thing as tasty medicine."
"Hebrew","Till age forty it is better to eat. after that, drinking is better."
"Hebrew","There are three things that attract: a house for its inhabitants, a woman for her spouse, and a bargain for a customer."
"Hebrew","There are three people whose lives are unworthy - the overly compassionate, the hot-tempered, and the hypercritical."
"Hebrew","There are three crowns: bible, priesthood, royalty. but the crown of a good name surpasses them all."
"Hebrew","There are seventy ways of interpreting the bible."
"Hebrew","There are people who deserve paradise for their thoughts, and hell for their deeds."
"Hebrew","There are no bad beasts except man."
"Hebrew","There are all kinds of people in the world: asses and mules, dogs and hogs, and also worms."
"Hebrew","The worst kind of person is one whose power of speech is greater than his power of thought."
"Hebrew","There is no vice that does not occasionally have some benefit, and no virtue that at times is not hurtful to some people."
"Hebrew","Tread on thorns with your shoes on."
"Hebrew","Walls have ears."
"Hebrew","Virtue bears its own fruits."
"Hebrew","Vinegar is the son of wine."
"Hebrew","Verbal fraud is worse than monetary fraud."
"Hebrew","Untying one of two ropes tied together means you untie both."
"Hebrew","Until your fortieth it is better to eat than to drink; afterwards it is vice versa."
"Hebrew","Until a child is one year old it is incapable of sin."
"Hebrew","Two farmers each claimed to own a certain cow. While one pulled on its head and the other pulled on its tail, the cow was milked by the lawyer."
"Hebrew","Three things show a man's character: his drinking, his pocket, and his anger."
"Hebrew","Two coins in a purse make more noise than a hundred."
"Hebrew","Through faith man experiences the meaning of the world; through action he is to give it meaning."
"Hebrew","Tradition must be a springboard to the future, not an easy chair for resting."
"Hebrew","To save one man is like saving the world."
"Hebrew","To punish a student, use a shoe lace."
"Hebrew","To do things wrong with best intentions is better than acting to the letter of the law with evil intentions."
"Hebrew","To be simple is a pedestrian virtue, but to persevere in simplicity is a virtue of spiritual giants."
"Hebrew","Time is a great healer."
"Hebrew","Time heals old pain, while it creates new ones."
"Hebrew","Till age six, your son is your master; until ten he's your servant; until sixteen, a wonderful adviser; from then on, he's either your friend or your enemy."
"Hebrew","The world's like a ladder: one ascends, and one descends."
"Hebrew","Two dogs can kill a lion."
"Hebrew","Being hospitable is more important than attending synagogue service early in the morning."
"Hebrew","Clean bodies, pure morals."
"Hebrew","Choose an easy death for one who must be executed."
"Hebrew","By the first glass a lamb, the second a lion, and the third a pig."
"Hebrew","Buttered bread always falls dry side up."
"Hebrew","Breasts adorn a woman and make a man look ugly."
"Hebrew","Books provide knowledge, life furnishes understanding."
"Hebrew","Beware of him who gives you advice according to his own interests."
"Hebrew","Better blind of eye than blind of heart."
"Hebrew","An advantage of poverty, your relatives gain nothing by your death."
"Hebrew","Better a night full of anger than a night full of repentance."
"Hebrew","Do not confine your children to your own learning, for they were born in another time."
"Hebrew","Be careful not to make a woman weep."
"Hebrew","Ask someone else for advice but keep your knowledge to yourself."
"Hebrew","Approach the perfumer and thou wilt be perfumed."
"Hebrew","Anxiety breaks a man's backbone."
"Hebrew","Anger in a house is like a worm in a plant."
"Hebrew","An unlucky man falls on straw, but splits his nose from a hidden stone."
"Hebrew","An old man in the house is a burden, but an old woman is a treasure."
"Hebrew","Give me good advice but don't advise me not to do it."
"Hebrew","Better be a cursed man than he who curses."
"Hebrew","Don't put your trust in princes, or the sons of men; there is no salvation in them."
"Hebrew","Gamblers do not contribute to the public welfare."
"Hebrew","From a limb that started sinning, all the troubles began."
"Hebrew","Flee from sin as from a snake; if you go near it, it will bite you."
"Hebrew","Fire dies for lack of wood; if there's no whispering, gossip stops."
"Hebrew","Faith is not a whole series of axioms but a whole way of life."
"Hebrew","More people die from overeating than from undernourishment."
"Hebrew","Equality of man is an empty phrase so long as it does not exist among the world's peoples."
"Hebrew","Even if a fool remains silent, he is considered wise."
"Hebrew","Courage is a kingdom without a crown."
"Hebrew","Don't visit auctions if you have no money."
"Hebrew","Customs are stronger than laws."
"Hebrew","Don't live in a town where there are no doctors."
"Hebrew","Don't be too sweet lest you be eaten up; don't be too bitter lest you be spewed out."
"Hebrew","Don't be sweet lest people lick you."
"Hebrew","Don't be quick to get angry; rage is found in the bosom of fools."
"Hebrew","Do not speak of secrets in a field that is full of little hills."
"Hebrew","Do not speak of secret matters in a field that is full of little hills."
"Hebrew","Do not judge your fellow man until you have stood in his place."
"Hebrew","Do not eat before you have fed your animal."
"Hebrew","An accuser may not act as a defender."
"Hebrew","Earning a living is as hard as splitting the red sea."
"Hebrew","A guest who comes empty handed does not deserve a warm welcome."
"Hebrew","A pain that pricks the conscience is more effective than a lot of whiplashes."
"Hebrew","A man's intelligence is located in the tip of the pen."
"Hebrew","A man's heart tells him of his opportunities better than seven watchmen on the lookout tower."
"Hebrew","A man without a woman cannot defend himself against seductions."
"Hebrew","A man dies when he stops working."
"Hebrew","A little fire burns up a great deal of corn."
"Hebrew","A liar's punishment: even when he tells the truth, people don't believe him."
"Hebrew","A leader is not necessarily one who knows the way but one who thinks he knows the way."
"Hebrew","An advantage of poverty: your relatives gain nothing by your death."
"Hebrew","A henpecked husband gets no support during a lawsuit."
"Hebrew","A person is always responsible: if his act was accidental or intentional, whether he was awake or asleep."
"Hebrew","A drunkard at prayer is regarded as an idol worshipper."
"Hebrew","A dream which has not been interpreted is like a letter unread."
"Hebrew","A dog can't be a butcher, and a bachelor can't be a matchmaker."
"Hebrew","A change of name or place may sometimes save a person."
"Hebrew","A borrower may not lend the thing he borrowed."
"Hebrew","A book gives knowledge, but it is life that gives understanding."
"Hebrew","A beautiful ornament looks best on a beautiful woman."
"Hebrew","A basic rule of caution: don't be overly cautious."
"Hebrew","A jew without a wife will not find peace in this life."
"Hebrew","A stupidly devout man, the slyly evil, and the sanctimonious woman - these will destroy the world."
"Hebrew","Ambition destroys its possessor."
"Hebrew","All kinds of hellish devils rule an angry person."
"Hebrew","All jews are responsible, one for another."
"Hebrew","Admission by the defendant is worth a hundred witnesses."
"Hebrew","Adam was the luckiest of men: he had no mother-in-law."
"Hebrew","A young tree bends, an old tree breaks."
"Hebrew","A woman prefers poverty with love to wealth without love."
"Hebrew","A wise son makes his father happy; a foolish one grieves his mother."
"Hebrew","A people's legends reveal its character more clearly than its acts and events."
"Hebrew","A visit is like rainwater; you pray for it when it stays away and its a problem when it rains too much."
"Hebrew","A person can understand things deeply through proverbs."
"Hebrew","A slave shows his true character, not while he is enslaved but when he becomes a master."
"Hebrew","A slanderer kills three: himself, his listener, and the person who was slandered."
"Hebrew","A secret is between two; when a third is involved, it's no secret."
"Hebrew","A rich man has no need of character."
"Hebrew","A quotation at the right moment is like bread to the hungry."
"Hebrew","A pointed proverb is like a diamond: it emits light, and it also cuts."
"Hebrew","A person worries about the past, is upset about the present, and fears the future."
"Hebrew","A person slow to anger has great understanding; one with a quick temper exalts foolishness."
"Hebrew","Even when a sharp sword rests on your neck, don't give up on mercy."
"Hebrew","A wedding is like a funeral, but with musicians."
"Hebrew","In my life of vanity i saw everything: a righteous man dying in his righteousness, and a wicked man living long after his evil deeds."
"Hebrew","Just as the world cannot exist without livelihoods, so it cannot exist without miracles and wonders."
"Hebrew","Just as people's faces are different, so are their opinions different."
"Hebrew","Judgment delayed is judgment avoided."
"Hebrew","Judge a man not by the words of his mother, but from the comments of his neighbors."
"Hebrew","Join the community: the wolf snatches only the stray sheep that wanders off from the flock."
"Hebrew","It's not the sin that maddens a person but the desire to do it."
"Hebrew","It's better that you suffer an injustice than you commit one."
"Hebrew","It is fitting for a great God to forgive great sinners."
"Hebrew","If you do a person a favor, you'll be his superior; if he does one for you, his inferior; and if neither, you'll be his friend."
"Hebrew","It cannot be true religion if it loves money."
"Hebrew","Laziness likes to justify itself for not doing anything because it cannot do everything."
"Hebrew","In a community, your reputation matters. in a strange place, your clothing counts."
"Hebrew","If your son-in-law is good, you gained a son. if he is bad, you've lost a daughter."
"Hebrew","Gluttony has killed more people than famine has."
"Hebrew","If you see your friend's ox or sheep straying, don't look the other way; return them to your friend."
"Hebrew","If you receive pay, you cannot sit idle and if you sit idle, you cannot receive pay."
"Hebrew","If you don't walk after eating, your food remains undigested."
"Hebrew","If you don't aspire to great things, you won't attain small things."
"Hebrew","If you do not honor your parents, your children will not honor you."
"Hebrew","It is better to talk to a woman and think of God, than talk to God and think of a woman."
"Hebrew","Make not thy tail broader than thy wings."
"Hebrew","Money purifies everything."
"Hebrew","Men were born with bread in their hands women were born with empty hands."
"Hebrew","Men like guests more than women do."
"Hebrew","Marrying off a daughter is like loading cargo on a ship."
"Hebrew","Marry for money, my little sonny, a rich man's joke is always funny."
"Hebrew","Many hands can shatter stout walls."
"Hebrew","Man was born for love. if he hates, he was born in vain."
"Hebrew","Man is like a breath, his days like a passing shadow."
"Hebrew","Kindness is the beginning and the end of the law."
"Hebrew","Man has succeeded in overcoming tremendous spaces, but not the distance between one man and another."
"Hebrew","Knowledge is like the sun - it dispels the darkness."
"Hebrew","Make not a fence more expensive or more important than the thing that is fenced."
"Hebrew","Love him who tells you your faults in private."
"Hebrew","Love forgets dignity."
"Hebrew","Love does not pay attention to dignity."
"Hebrew","Love blinds the eyes to faults, and hatred blinds the eyes to virtues."
"Hebrew","Love and hate always exaggerate."
"Hebrew","Look after me, and i'll look after you."
"Hebrew","Leadership shortens life."
"Hebrew","If you want to control your soul, hand it as a gift to your intellect."
"Hebrew","Man is like a bird: a bird can fly higher and higher, but only if its wings continue to move without stopping."
"Hebrew","Happy the generation where the great listen to the small, for it follows that in such a generation the small will listen to the great."
"Hebrew","He who is unyielding in a dispute is a sinner."
"Hebrew","He who is his own judge never finds a reason to condemn."
"Hebrew","He who instigates good deeds is greater than the one who performs them."
"Hebrew","He who gossips and he who listens to it deserve to be thrown to the dogs."
"Hebrew","If you commence a good action, leave it not incomplete."
"Hebrew","He who follows advice from women will end up in hell."
"Hebrew","Immortality is surely a pleasant feeling, especially when the individual is still alive."
"Hebrew","He that eats till he is sick must fast till he is well."
"Hebrew","He who prays for his neighbors will be heard for himself."
"Hebrew","He has sold the sun to buy a candle."
"Hebrew","He who gives charity anonymously is greater than moses."
"Hebrew","Grapes picked too early don't even make good vinegar."
"Hebrew","Gossip is more horrible than a capital crime."
"Hebrew","Good company will save you from bad deeds."
"Hebrew","God made man upright, but man searched out many crooked devices."
"Hebrew","God did not create woman from man's head, that he should command her, nor from his feet, that she should be his slave, but rather from his side, that she should be near his heart."
"Hebrew","God detests a man who rushes to accuse a neighbor."
"Hebrew","God counts her tears."
"Hebrew","God could not be everywhere, that's why he made mothers."
"Hebrew","He is great whose faults can be numbered."
"Hebrew","If two men claim your help, and one is your enemy, help him first."
"Hebrew","If you can't find peace within you, you'll labor in vain to find it elsewhere."
"Hebrew","If you are born an ass, you will die one."
"Hebrew","He who does not teach his son a trade teaches him to steal."
"Hebrew","If you add to the truth, you take something away from it."
"Hebrew","He who takes his rank lightly raises his own dignity."
"Hebrew","If the wine comes in, good sense goes out."
"Hebrew","If the dog barks, go in; if the bitch barks you had better stay outside."
"Hebrew","If someone is coming to kill you, get up early and kill him first."
"Hebrew","If lending were a good idea, then the husband would lend out his wife."
"Hebrew","If everyone cleaned his own doorstep, all the streets would be clean."
"Hebrew","If a word be worth one shekel, silence is worth two."
"Hebrew","Honor is greater than wealth; wealth is only an instrument to attain honor."
"Hebrew","If you always fear misfortune, you'll miss out on happiness."
"Hebrew","If a man and his wife are deserving, god's presence is with them; if they are not deserving, fire consumes them."
"Hebrew","I was young, now i'm old, and i did not see a righteous man forsaken and his children begging for bread."
"Hebrew","I learned much from my teachers, more from my friends, and the most from my pupils."
"Hebrew","Humor is an important asset: it means understanding and self-criticism. where humor is absent, you'll find small-mindedness."
"Hebrew","How great man would be were he not so arrogant."
"Hebrew","Hope for a miracle, but don't rely on it."
"Hebrew","If i am not for myself, who will be? but if i am only for myself, what am i? and if not now, then when?"
"Hebrew","You don't show a fool a job half done."
"Hebrew","The more you add, the worse it gets."
"Hebrew","Silence is a fine jewel for a woman, but it is little worn."
"Hebrew","Slander slays three persons: the speaker, the spoken to, and the spoken of."
"Hebrew","Teach your grandam to spin."
"Hebrew","Teach your grandame to suck eggs."
"Hebrew","The court is most merciful when the accused is most rich."
"Hebrew","The kind man feeds his cat before sitting down to dinner."
"Hebrew","The place honors not the man; it is the man who honors the place."
"Hebrew","These three are the marks of a Jew--a tender heart, self-respect, and charity."
"Hebrew","Time heals old pain, while it creates new ones."
"Hebrew","Time is a great healer."
"Hebrew","Silence is a fence around wisdom."
"Hebrew","Whoever teaches his son teaches not only his son but also his son's son, and so on to the end of generations."
"Hebrew","Silence is a woman's best garment."
"Hebrew","Who seeks more than he needs hinders himself from enjoying what he has."
"Hebrew","If a word be worth one shekel, silence is worth two."
"Hebrew","A rich man has no need of character."
"Hebrew","Admission by the defendant is worth a hundred witnesses."
"Hebrew","An advantage of poverty: your relatives gain nothing by your death."
"Hebrew","Do not confine your children to your own learning, for they were born in another time."
"Hebrew","Eat vegetables and fear no creditors, rather than eat duck and hide."
"Hebrew","God did not create woman from man's head, that he should command her, nor from his feet, that she should be his slave, but rather from his side, that she should be near his heart."
"Hebrew","Rivalry of scholars advances wisdom."
"Hebrew","He who takes his rank lightly raises his own dignity."
"Hebrew","A little fire burns up a great deal of corn."
"Hebrew","Make not a fence more expensive or more important than the thing that is fenced."
"Hebrew","Make not thy tail broader than thy wings. [Keep not too many attendants.]"
"Hebrew","Opinions founded on prejudice are always sustained with the greatest violence."
"Hebrew","Teach thy tongue to say, ""I do not know."""
"Hebrew","People worry, and God smiles."
"Hebrew","Promise little and do much."
"Hebrew","Happy the generation where the great listen to the small, for it follows that in such a generation the small will listen to the great."
"Herero","A weak person goes where he is smiled at."
"Herero","You do not run into mountains, but people yes."
"Herero","A bitter heart devours its owner."
"Himalayan","When the explorer is ready, the guide will appear."
"Hindi","On a green tree there are many parrots."
"Hindi","What is play to one is death to another."
"Hindi","To lose is to learn."
"Hindi","To lend is to buy a quarrel."
"Hindi","The young crow is wiser than its mother."
"Hindi","The washerman never tears his father's clothes."
"Hindi","The eyes do not see what the mind does not want."
"Hindi","God gives food to every bird, but does not throw it into the nest."
"Hindi","Self Praise is no praise."
"Hindi","When anger comes, wisdom goes."
"Hindi","One who cannot dance blames the floor."
"Hindi","A scalded cat dreads cold water."
"Hindi","Man is his own devil."
"Hindi","A fool went to fish, but lost his fishing-basket."
"Hindi","A thief is a thief, whether he steals a diamond or a cucumber."
"Hindi","Call on God, but row away from the rocks."
"Hindi","Can your hands do what your tongue does?"
"Hindi","Don't bargain for fish which are still in the water."
"Hindi","God takes care of a blind cow."
"Hindi","I am king, you a king: who is to fetch the water?"
"Hindi","In a treeless country, the castor-oil plant is a big tree."
"Hindi","He who will not climb will not fall."
"Hindi","When anger comes, wisdom goes."
"Hindu","It is a cart if it travels well, else it is but timber."
"Hindu","Whose stick, his buffalo."
"Hindu","Those who give have all things; those who withhold have nothing."
"Hindu","Many dogs kill a hare, no matter how many turns it makes."
"Hindu","Like the body that is made up of different limbs and organs, all mortal creatures exist depending upon one another."
"Hindu","Kill a cow to donate shoes."
"Hindu","There is nothing noble in being superior to some other man. The true nobility is in being superior to your previous self."
"Hindu","These three take crooked ways: carts, boats, and musicians."
"Hindu","True happiness consists in making others happy."
"Hindu","Wash your hands in the flowing Ganges."
"Hindu","Waste makes want."
"Hindu","Waste not want not."
"Hindu","Of what use is the veil if you are going to dance."
"Hindu","When an elephant is in trouble even a frog will kick him."
"Hindu","They who give have all things; they who withhold have nothing."
"Hindu","Sleep after selling horses and elephants."
"Hindu","When a camel is at the foot of a mountain then judge of his height."
"Hindu","Dig your well before you're thirsty."
"Hindu","To give quickly is a great virtue."
"Hindu","A man becomes like those whose society he loves."
"Hindu","A man in this world without learning is as a beast of the field."
"Hindu","Among the blind, the squint rules."
"Hindu","Anger has no eyes."
"Hindu","Can the monkey know the taste of ginger?"
"Hindu","Saints fly only in the eyes of their disciples."
"Hindu","Dig a well every day to drink water every day."
"Hindu","Eating while seated makes one of large size; eating while standing makes one strong."
"Hindu","He who does kind deeds becomes rich."
"Hindu","Help thy brother's boat across, and lo! thine own has reached the shore."
"Hindu","Help your brother's boat across, and your own will reach the shore."
"Hindu","It is a cart if it travels well, else it is but timber."
"Hindu","It is better to walk than to run; it is better to stand than to walk; it is better to sit than to stand; it is better to lie than to sit."
"Hindu","Can't tell his ass from a hole in the ground."
"Hindu","Kill a cow to donate shoes."
"Hindu","Waste not want not."
"Hindu","Waste makes want."
"Hindu","Wash your hands in the flowing Ganges."
"Hindu","They who give have all things; they who withhold have nothing."
"Hindu","These three take crooked ways: carts, boats, and musicians."
"Hindu","Sleep after selling horses and elephants."
"Hindu","A man in this world without learning is as a beast of the field."
"Hindu","Of what use is the veil if you are going to dance."
"Hindu","When a camel is at the foot of a mountain then judge of his height."
"Hindu","It is better to walk than to run; it is better to stand than to walk; it is better to sit than to stand; it is better to lie than to sit."
"Hindu","Dig your well before you're thirsty."
"Hindu","Can't tell his ass from a hole in the ground."
"Hindu","Can the monkey know the taste of ginger?"
"Hindu","Anger has no eyes."
"Hindu","Among the blind, the squint rules."
"Hindu","Eating while seated makes one of large size; eating while standing makes one strong."
"Hindu","Saints fly only in the eyes of their disciples."
"Hindu","Whose stick, his buffalo."
"Hindu","When an elephant is in trouble even a frog will kick him."
"Hindu","Dig a well every day to drink water every day."
"Hindustani","Dependence on someone else can cause reoccurring disappointment. "
"Hindustani","The person who is too humble becomes a scoundrel. "
"Hindustani","People dont trip on mountains, but they sometimes stumble on stones."
"Hindustani","Love your neighbor, but dont take down the separating-wall."
"Hindustani","An elephant, no matter how skinny, is valuable."
"Hindustani","The living things of the Earth depend on each other just like the limbs and organs of the body do. "
"Hindustani","In a treeless country, the castor plant is a big tree."
"Hindustani","Regularity is the best medicine. "
"Hindustani","The supreme excellence is not in being better than others, but in being better than your former self."
"Hindustani","Diet cures more than the surgical knife does. "
"Hindustani","Dig your well before you are thirsty. "
"Hindustani","The speech, actions, manner of movement, and turban of each man differs from all others."
"Hindustani","No one can be a totally fair judge in his own case. "
"Hindustani","Sitting while you eat makes you large; standing while you eat makes you strong. "
"Hindustani","It is a cart if it goes well, otherwise it is but timber."
"Hindustani","The tree casts its shade upon all, even upon the woodcutter."
"Hindustani","True nobility is in being superior to your previous self."
"Hindustani","The adult looks to deeds, the child to love."
"Hindustani","The adult looks to deed, the child to love."
"Hindustani","Give your ears to words but do not give your words to ears."
"Hindustani","Diet cures more than the lancet."
"Hindustani","Dictators ride to and fro upon tigers which they dare not dismount."
"Hindustani","Bathe early every day and sickness will avoid you."
"Hindustani","No sooner have you spoken than what you have said becomes the property of another."
"Hindustani","Once out of the throat it spreads over the world."
"Hindustani","Bathe early every day and sickness will avoid you."
"Hindustani","Dictators ride to and fro upon tigers which they dare not dismount."
"Hindustani","Diet cures more than the lancet."
"Hindustani","Give your ears to words but do not give your words to ears."
"Hindustani","It is a cart if it goes well, otherwise it is but timber."
"Hindustani","No sooner have you spoken than what you have said becomes the property of another."
"Hindustani","Once out of the throat it spreads over the world."
"Hindustani","The adult looks to deeds, the child to love."
"Holland","To do nothing teaches evil."
"Holland","Virtue consists of action."
"Holland","Might is not right."
"Holland","Sweep in front of your own door before you look after your neighbor's."
"Honduran","Choose the stone by the size of the frog."
"Honduran","Every time one laughs a nail is removed from one's coffin."
"Honduran","For great ills, great remedies."
"Honduran","For the lazy and the poor, everything always takes twice the effort."
"Honduran","Grief shared is half grief; Joy shared is double joy."
"Honduran","He who walks the path of evil comes upon an evil end."
"Honduran","Hunger has no law; it's just hungry."
"Honduran","No matter if the child's born blind, as long as it doesn't beg."
"Honduran","When the blind leads the way, woe to those who follow."
"Honduran","The truth is bitter and lies are sweet."
"Hopi","In age, talk; in childhood, tears."
"Hopi","We are the ones we have been waiting for."
"Hopi","Eating little and speaking little can hurt no man."
"Hopi","Teaching should come from within instead of without."
"Hopi","The dead add their strength and counsel to the living. The dead add their strength and counsel to the living."
"Hopi","The rain falls upon the just and the unjust."
"Hopi","The rainbow is a sign from Him who is in all things."
"Hopi","Take care when you speak in judgment. Words are powerful weapons."
"Hopi","Time isn't used, it's experienced."
"Hopi","Take a breath of the new dawn and make it a part of you."
"Hopi","What should it matter that one bowl is dark and the other pale, if each is of good design and serves it's purpose well?"
"Hopi","When the grandmothers speak, the earth will be healed."
"Hopi","Wisdom comes only when you stop looking for it and start living the life the Creator intended for you."
"Hopi","Work hard, keep the ceremonies, live peaceably, and unite your hearts."
"Hopi","You have to believe in gods to see them."
"Hopi","You must live your life from beginning to end: No one else can do it for you."
"Hopi","The supreme law of the land is the Great Spirit's law, not man's law."
"Hopi","In death, I am born."
"Hopi","All dreams spin out from the same web."
"Hopi","An angry word is like striking with a knife."
"Hopi","Before you take any decision, consider its effect on the next seven generations."
"Hopi","Do not allow anger to poison you."
"Hopi","Don't be afraid to cry. it will free your mind of sorrowful thoughts."
"Hopi","Take your child with you where you go and be not ashamed."
"Hopi","Thoughts are like arrows: once released, they strike their mark. guard them well or one day you may be your own victim."
"Hopi","A people without faith in themselves cannot survive."
"Hopi","Lose your temper and you lose a friend; lie and you lose yourself."
"Hopi","Never be afraid to cry. It will free your mind of sorrowful thoughts."
"Hopi","Never help a person who doesn't help anybody else."
"Hopi","Never interfere in a person's decisions about what he will do with his possessions."
"Hopi","No answer is also an answer."
"Hopi","One finger can't lift a pebble."
"Hopi","If we dig precious things from the land, we will invite disaster."
"Hopi","Truth does not happen, it just is."
"Hopi","One finger can't lift a pebble."
"Hopi Indian","To watch us dance is to hear our hearts speak."
"Hunde","The new moon cannot come until the other has gone."
"Hungarian","Where ambition begins happiness ends."
"Hungarian","Let those perish, leave who are not up to the standard."
"Hungarian","Let us take it into our hands and then you carry it."
"Hungarian","Liberty is dearer than gold."
"Hungarian","Life is beautiful if it is hectic."
"Hungarian","Like a thunderstroke from a clear sky."
"Hungarian","Like Barnard, he tries to catch the heavens stone."
"Hungarian","Like greeting, on arrival, like answer."
"Hungarian","Like Mrs Bodo he talks about something else when asked to pay for the wine."
"Hungarian","Like question, like answer."
"Hungarian","Like tree, like fruit."
"Hungarian","Let the shoemaker remain at his last."
"Hungarian","Little money, little football."
"Hungarian","Let the cobbler Paul grumble, he should only make good sandals."
"Hungarian","Living with a devil, you have to turn a devil."
"Hungarian","Long hair, short wit."
"Hungarian","Long sausage and short sermon are good."
"Hungarian","Look at the mother, marry the daughter."
"Hungarian","Love is blind."
"Hungarian","Luck belongs to the brave."
"Hungarian","Luck brings friends, need tries them."
"Hungarian","Make no headache of what is not your business."
"Hungarian","Man hopes until his death."
"Hungarian","Man is a wolf to man."
"Hungarian","Man plans, God decides."
"Hungarian","Many a little becomes much."
"Hungarian","Like wash-basin, like towel."
"Hungarian","It will happen when the Danube reverts its course or dries up."
"Hungarian","It is like peas thrown against the wall."
"Hungarian","It is like throwing bur on a gourd."
"Hungarian","It is long as the songs of St. John's day."
"Hungarian","It is made as the stool of St. Lucy's day."
"Hungarian","It is not all, always mallow."
"Hungarian","It is not good to eat cherries from the same dish with persons of high rank."
"Hungarian","It is not good to paint the devil on the wall."
"Hungarian","It is not good to play with the fire."
"Hungarian","It is taken by turns like village headmanship."
"Hungarian","It was a difficult childbirth."
"Hungarian","It was baked too late."
"Hungarian","It was needed as a Slovak glazier needed falling on his back."
"Hungarian","Let the wormy of it drop off."
"Hungarian","It will be what will be."
"Hungarian","Many Eskimos and few seals."
"Hungarian","It will not last longer than frying an egg."
"Hungarian","It will soon show which milk will yield a good curd."
"Hungarian","It's easy to take Kati to the dance, if she is also willing."
"Hungarian","It's hard to dance in chains."
"Hungarian","It's natural to have some disagreement between husband and wife."
"Hungarian","Its smoke is bigger than the flame."
"Hungarian","Just because a loan is old, that does not make it a gift."
"Hungarian","Kings Matthias is dead, justice is lost."
"Hungarian","Knowledge is power."
"Hungarian","Learn steer, you will turn an ox."
"Hungarian","Leave others in peace, care for yourself."
"Hungarian","Let it come, whatever must come."
"Hungarian","It went into smoke."
"Hungarian","One likes the priest, someone else his wife, I prefer his daughter."
"Hungarian","Nothing is new under the sun."
"Hungarian","One blacksmith envies another."
"Hungarian","One can do anything, only will is needed."
"Hungarian","One cannot be cautious enough."
"Hungarian","One cannot fight the wind."
"Hungarian","One cannot put everything under one hat."
"Hungarian","One cannot serve two masters."
"Hungarian","One cannot sit in two saddles having one arse/bottom only."
"Hungarian","One cannot strip two hides from one fox."
"Hungarian","One does not know what he will find tomorrow."
"Hungarian","One fool makes a hundred."
"Hungarian","Many cooks put too much salt in the soup, food."
"Hungarian","One has to tighten the belt."
"Hungarian","Nobody is forced to attend the dinner given after killing a pig."
"Hungarian","One need not throw out the child with the bathwater."
"Hungarian","One of my eyes sheds tears, the other one laughs."
"Hungarian","One of them is a dog, the other a barker."
"Hungarian","One of them is nineteen, the other is one less than twenty."
"Hungarian","One road leads to heaven but many lead to hell."
"Hungarian","One should act as he may, not as he would like to."
"Hungarian","One should do more by wisdom than by force."
"Hungarian","One should not stir the shit as it will be even more stinking."
"Hungarian","One swallow does not make a summer."
"Hungarian","Only those make no errors, who do not work at all."
"Hungarian","Only words that have been told can be understood."
"Hungarian","Opportunity bears the thief."
"Hungarian","One hand washes the other."
"Hungarian","Much water has run in the Danube sine then."
"Hungarian","It is easy to push a cart drawn by twelve oxen."
"Hungarian","Many geese overpower a pig."
"Hungarian","Many good people can find room in a small space."
"Hungarian","He who has butter on his head, should not go to the sun."
"Hungarian","Many hands are quickly ready with the work."
"Hungarian","He who has a toothache, should keep his tongue on it."
"Hungarian","Many homes burns inside but it is not seen outside."
"Hungarian","Measure twice, cut but once."
"Hungarian","Money has no smell."
"Hungarian","Money is best when counted, a woman is best when beaten."
"Hungarian","Money talks, although the dog may bark."
"Hungarian","More credit is given to the eyes than to the ears."
"Hungarian","Not even the priest will speak, preach twice."
"Hungarian","Mountain does not meet mountain but man does meet man."
"Hungarian","Not always that reaps who sows."
"Hungarian","Much water will flow in the Danube until then."
"Hungarian","My house is my castle."
"Hungarian","Nail by, with nail."
"Hungarian","Necessity breaks the law."
"Hungarian","Neither be conceited, nor fall into despair."
"Hungarian","Nice words appease even the enemy."
"Hungarian","No one was ever hung for what he was thinking."
"Hungarian","No rose without a thorn."
"Hungarian","Nobody can rest in his own shadow."
"Hungarian","Nobody can slip out of his own skin."
"Hungarian","Nobody is a prophet in his own country."
"Hungarian","Many drops hollow the stone."
"Hungarian","More was lost at Mohacs."
"Hungarian","He would be good for death."
"Hungarian","It is good to have an old man at home."
"Hungarian","His courage sank to his sinews."
"Hungarian","His cloak was put out."
"Hungarian","Here lies the rub."
"Hungarian","Here is nothing, hold it tight."
"Hungarian","Help yourself and the God will also help you."
"Hungarian","Hell has been broken loose."
"Hungarian","Hear and see much, say little."
"Hungarian","Headman Simon drives the horse."
"Hungarian","He would spend even the treasures of Darius."
"Hungarian","He would not deserve even the rope for hanging."
"Hungarian","His footprints can be beaten with a stick."
"Hungarian","He would drown him in a spoonful of water."
"Hungarian","His hay is in order."
"Hungarian","He would attend ther funeral of labour."
"Hungarian","He wont pick strawberries into the basket on somebody else."
"Hungarian","He whose mouth was once burned by hot mush, blows even at sour milk."
"Hungarian","He who works has no time to earn money."
"Hungarian","He who wants to shoot at a crow, will not pluck his bow."
"Hungarian","He who wants to go fishing must not be afraid of the water."
"Hungarian","He who ventures, wins."
"Hungarian","He who trusts is happy; the doubter is wise."
"Hungarian","He who sows wind, reaps whirlwind."
"Hungarian","He who slowly gets angry will stay angry for a long time."
"Hungarian","He who readily believes, will be readily disappointed."
"Hungarian","He who promises much, gives little."
"Hungarian","He would even lie, there is no star in the sky."
"Hungarian","I wish to see him when I see the middle of my back."
"Hungarian","If something is given to you then take it, if you are beaten, then run away."
"Hungarian","If one person calls you a horse, laugh at him. If a second person calls you a horse, think about it."
"Hungarian","If it's God's will the broom will lose its handle."
"Hungarian","If it is not one's shirt, one should not put it on."
"Hungarian","If it does not trickle, it will drop."
"Hungarian","If I say, it is pregnant, If I do not say, it is not pregnant."
"Hungarian","If he is thrown out through the door, he enters through the window."
"Hungarian","If all cords break."
"Hungarian","If a stone was thrown at you, throw back some bread in return."
"Hungarian","If a dog is to be killed, it is said to be mad."
"Hungarian","If a dog is driven by a stick after a hare, he will not catch it."
"Hungarian","His eyes are beautiful, but his heart is a devil."
"Hungarian","I would not wipe my muddy boots in him."
"Hungarian","He who is struck by the lightning doesn't hear the thunder."
"Hungarian","I tell you one thing, two will result from it."
"Hungarian","I tell my daughter, my daughter-in-law should understand it."
"Hungarian","I shall teach you to pipe into glove."
"Hungarian","I have already seen a crow on a pole."
"Hungarian","I do not want it even for my enemy."
"Hungarian","I can chew for you, my child, but you must swallow by yourself."
"Hungarian","How could the boots get on the table."
"Hungarian","His words are nice but he is a devil."
"Hungarian","His soul comes to him only to sleep there."
"Hungarian","His snow-boots are full."
"Hungarian","His pocket knife opens in my pocket."
"Hungarian","His mouth is as big as the Vienna Gate."
"Hungarian","I'll say such things that I'll regret even myself."
"Hungarian","It is an egg of Columbus."
"Hungarian","In the army there is no Uncle Peter."
"Hungarian","In the dark all cats and all girls are beautiful."
"Hungarian","In the long run even a dog will compromise with the cat."
"Hungarian","In wine there is truth."
"Hungarian","It fell to the thirtieth of dogs."
"Hungarian","It goes like clockwork."
"Hungarian","It goes like cuts of a whip."
"Hungarian","It has neither an ear, nor a tail."
"Hungarian","It has neither rhyme nor reason."
"Hungarian","It has never been so, that it wouldn't have been anyhow."
"Hungarian","It hit a nail into his head."
"Hungarian","He who once ventures to lie, deserves no more confidence."
"Hungarian","It is a splinter in the eye of somebody."
"Hungarian","In every good thing there is something bad."
"Hungarian","It is an ugly bird that defiles its own nest."
"Hungarian","It is bad with the bad, but it is worse without the bad."
"Hungarian","It is below the bottom of a frog."
"Hungarian","It is better to ask twice than to err once."
"Hungarian","It is better to fear, something than to get frightened."
"Hungarian","It is better to get fillers often than forints seldom."
"Hungarian","It is better to give than to receive."
"Hungarian","It is difficult to swim against the stream."
"Hungarian","It is easier to destroy than to build."
"Hungarian","It is easy to collect ears of corn under, beside a stack."
"Hungarian","It is easy to inflict a wound, but difficult to heal it."
"Hungarian","If the cat's away, the mice will dance."
"Hungarian","It is a fine thing to die for one's fatherland, but a still finer thing to live for it."
"Hungarian","If the mountain will not go to Mohammed, Mohammed will go to mountain."
"Hungarian","It is good everywhere, but it is the best at home."
"Hungarian","He who is strongest, ablest can devour it."
"Hungarian","He who is slow to anger is longer getting over it."
"Hungarian","He who is sitting in the reeds, makes a whistle of his choice."
"Hungarian","The bite of a dog is healed by the hair of it."
"Hungarian","He who is not against us, that is with us."
"Hungarian","Order is the soul of everything."
"Hungarian","He who is feared by many must be afraid of many."
"Hungarian","He who is conceited, will easily be ashamed."
"Hungarian","He who is close to the fire, will get warm best."
"Hungarian","He who is a friend of Christ, will soon find salvation."
"Hungarian","He who hunts two hares, does not catch even one."
"Hungarian","In much talk there is much bottom, inferior matter."
"Hungarian","He who has no knowledge, understanding of something, should not engage in, or interfere with it."
"Hungarian","In judging others, the point of departure is always himself."
"Hungarian","If the shepherds fight each other, the wolf has a good time."
"Hungarian","If there is no horse, a donkey will do as well."
"Hungarian","If three people tell you that you are drunk, lie down."
"Hungarian","If Vincent begins to flow, then the cellar will be full."
"Hungarian","If we do nothing, without being ordered to do, no trouble will result from it."
"Hungarian","If women were not vain, men could teach them how to be."
"Hungarian","If you come, you will be, if you bring, you will eat."
"Hungarian","If you don't cherish the little, you don't deserve the more."
"Hungarian","If you want something, go yourself, if not, send somebody else."
"Hungarian","If your sword is short, add one step to it."
"Hungarian","In at one ear and out at the other."
"Hungarian","He who mixes with the bran, will be eaten by the pigs."
"Hungarian","He who has not enough wit in the head, should force to replace it in the leg."
"Hungarian","This is already a gnawed bone."
"Hungarian","To whom God gives an office, adds also senses to it."
"Hungarian","There is thick sandal leather on his face."
"Hungarian","There must be order."
"Hungarian","There will be no funeral songs out of this."
"Hungarian","These was a dog-market in Buda only once."
"Hungarian","They are as far apart as Mako is from Jerusalem."
"Hungarian","They are as many as the Russians."
"Hungarian","They are rowing in the same ship."
"Hungarian","They blow one stone."
"Hungarian","They grind in two mills."
"Hungarian","They have buried the hatchet."
"Hungarian","There is no worthless thing which could not be used something."
"Hungarian","This is a veterinary horse."
"Hungarian","There is no rule without exception."
"Hungarian","This is but a hump on our backs."
"Hungarian","This is not my table."
"Hungarian","This is, what we experience, this is to be liked."
"Hungarian","Three women, a goose and two women make a whole fair."
"Hungarian","Time is money."
"Hungarian","Time passes, it waits for nobody."
"Hungarian","Tit for tat."
"Hungarian","To an earthenware dish a wooden spoon."
"Hungarian","To be silent is golden, to speak is silvern."
"Hungarian","To err is human."
"Hungarian","To get out of the bed on the wrong side."
"Hungarian","The believer is happy; the doubter is wise."
"Hungarian","They match as a stick in a quiver."
"Hungarian","The worse it is, in one respect, the better, in another respect."
"Hungarian","The straight road is the best."
"Hungarian","The tail wags the dog."
"Hungarian","The trees do not grow up to the sky."
"Hungarian","The underskirt is longer than the skirt."
"Hungarian","The voice of the people is the voice of God."
"Hungarian","The wheel turns better if greased."
"Hungarian","The whip cracks at the end."
"Hungarian","The wife of a careless man is almost a widow."
"Hungarian","The wind fells the oak, but cannot cope with the reed."
"Hungarian","The wolf, dog does not eat the winter."
"Hungarian","The woman of a man without sorrows is almost a widow."
"Hungarian","There is not only one pied dog in the world."
"Hungarian","The world stands to those who have eyes."
"Hungarian","Today it is enough to do it by one finger, tomorrow it will be necessary by ten nails."
"Hungarian","There are more days than sausages."
"Hungarian","There are still errors."
"Hungarian","There is a feast once even in Hell."
"Hungarian","There is a tile on the roof."
"Hungarian","There is a way upwards and downwards too."
"Hungarian","There is no coat big enough to hide both poverty and drunkenness."
"Hungarian","There is no impossibility, only unwillingness."
"Hungarian","There is no joy without sorrow."
"Hungarian","There is no loaded cart which could not carry one more forkful."
"Hungarian","There is no loss, which is not a gain for somebody."
"Hungarian","There is no medicine against death."
"Hungarian","There is no point in running ones head against the wall."
"Hungarian","The works praises its master."
"Hungarian","Whom a serpent has bitten, is afraid of a lizard."
"Hungarian","To pull somebody by a wire."
"Hungarian","When a wolf is mentioned, he is already walking round the garden."
"Hungarian","When ambition ends, happiness begins."
"Hungarian","Where ambition begins happiness ends."
"Hungarian","Where is by now the snow of last year."
"Hungarian","Where need is great, help is nearby."
"Hungarian","Where one trusts, there he gets fat."
"Hungarian","Where pig is proffered, go round with a sack."
"Hungarian","Where there are many masters the servant becomes mad."
"Hungarian","Where there is no bridge the smallest plank is of great value."
"Hungarian","Where there is smoke, there is fire."
"Hungarian","What you have cooked, you should eat as well."
"Hungarian","Who knows what tomorrow will bring."
"Hungarian","What you do not wish for yourself, do not do it to your fellowmen either."
"Hungarian","Whosoever chooses to deny their past can not expect to find a future."
"Hungarian","Wise men learn by others' harm."
"Hungarian","Without driving even a goat would not go to the market."
"Hungarian","Work is burning down to his nail."
"Hungarian","You do not needed a basket to pick well-knows strawberries."
"Hungarian","You haven't yet caught the bird, still you are already plucking her."
"Hungarian","You may go to Kukutyin to sharpen oats."
"Hungarian","You should not only know what is right but also do it."
"Hungarian","You try to trade at a deserted place."
"Hungarian","You'd better have one hundred who envy you than one who is sorry for you."
"Hungarian","He who greets with a stick, will be answered with a club."
"Hungarian","There is a dialogue between deaf people."
"Hungarian","Who gets mixed up with garbage will be eaten by pigs."
"Hungarian","We have seen a hare, we shall have no luck."
"Hungarian","Today to me, tomorrow to you."
"Hungarian","Trouble does not come alone."
"Hungarian","Truth cannot be hid under a bushel."
"Hungarian","Truth is scraped out even by a hen."
"Hungarian","Truth may be told in a joke too."
"Hungarian","Try to be in good company, even when you are alone."
"Hungarian","Two dogs can hardly agree on one bone."
"Hungarian","Two pipers cannot get on in one tavern."
"Hungarian","Two sharp swords cannot be is one sheath."
"Hungarian","Until we are only poorly paid, we shall also poorly work."
"Hungarian","Unwillingness ends in groaning."
"Hungarian","What's gone, is gone."
"Hungarian","We do not live to eat, but we eat to live."
"Hungarian","The smart lad is not him who beats, but he who endures it."
"Hungarian","We shall write it in soot in the chimney."
"Hungarian","What does not exist, cannot cause any trouble."
"Hungarian","What fails to succeed, should not be forced."
"Hungarian","What has that got to do with it."
"Hungarian","What he gains at the toll, loses at the customs."
"Hungarian","What is delayed may happen later."
"Hungarian","What is noticed by his eyes, will not be left there by his hands."
"Hungarian","What is on his heart, that is on his tongue."
"Hungarian","What Jove may do, the ox may not."
"Hungarian","What was given by God to one, cannot be taken away by man."
"Hungarian","What was stolen by the house, will be returned by it."
"Hungarian","What we keep silence about, does not exist."
"Hungarian","We do not care for the little and the great is of no importance."
"Hungarian","Tastes and slaps are different."
"Hungarian","The stake of the play is not beans."
"Hungarian","Something for something."
"Hungarian","Something has caused anger, despair but one was compelled to stand idly by."
"Hungarian","Something is better than nothing."
"Hungarian","Sometimes one has to light a candle for the devil too."
"Hungarian","Soup is not eaten as hot as it is cooked."
"Hungarian","Sparrows cannot be caught by beating a drum."
"Hungarian","Speak praises or nothing of the dead."
"Hungarian","Stop up the hole until it's small."
"Hungarian","Stretch yourself as far as your cover reaches."
"Hungarian","Strike the iron while it is hot."
"Hungarian","Small child - small trouble, big child - big trouble."
"Hungarian","Take what is yours, not that of others."
"Hungarian","Slow water washes away the bank."
"Hungarian","Tell me who your friends is, I'll tell you who you are."
"Hungarian","Tell the truth and your head will be broken."
"Hungarian","Tell the truth, and people will bash in your head."
"Hungarian","The agreement depends on two persons."
"Hungarian","The amount of people equals the amount of opinions."
"Hungarian","The amount of people equals the amount of opinions."
"Hungarian","The apple does not fall far from its tree."
"Hungarian","The big fish eats the little fish."
"Hungarian","The black soup is still ahead."
"Hungarian","The brave have all the luck."
"Hungarian","The bride is too beautiful."
"Hungarian","The cask savours of the first fill."
"Hungarian","Strike the iron while it is warm."
"Hungarian","Property gained unlawfully will be lost in the same way."
"Hungarian","Other people's eggs have two yolks."
"Hungarian","Out of a dog there will be no lard."
"Hungarian","Out of nothing there will be nothing."
"Hungarian","Out of the frying into the fire."
"Hungarian","Paper is patient."
"Hungarian","Patience brings roses."
"Hungarian","Peccadillos at home, deadly sins abroad."
"Hungarian","Peel the inner bark of the lime tree until it peels."
"Hungarian","Pepper is small but strong."
"Hungarian","Postpone today's anger till tomorrow."
"Hungarian","Practice makes the master."
"Hungarian","So many houses, so many customs."
"Hungarian","Praise the day at sunset."
"Hungarian","The child is dead the godfathership has ended."
"Hungarian","Punctuality is the politeness of kings."
"Hungarian","Radish is poison in the morning, food at noon and medicine in the evening."
"Hungarian","Rats desert a sinking ship."
"Hungarian","Return the dolls clothes."
"Hungarian","Running is away is a shame, but it is useful."
"Hungarian","Rust cannot do any harm to gold."
"Hungarian","Scrapes you short man, and you will also have."
"Hungarian","Several eyes see more."
"Hungarian","Sheepskin coat to sheepskin coat, cloth coat to cloth coat."
"Hungarian","Side-stepping an issue."
"Hungarian","Silence, means consent."
"Hungarian","Sing the song of the man whose cart you sit on."
"Hungarian","Praise a fair day at night."
"Hungarian","The owl tells the sparrow that her head is big."
"Hungarian","The horse's leg protrudes."
"Hungarian","The Hungarian justice is three."
"Hungarian","The limits is the starlit sky."
"Hungarian","The little devil is hiding in me."
"Hungarian","The magpie rattles, a guest vill come."
"Hungarian","The magpie wants too much, but her tail is unable to carry it."
"Hungarian","The master's eye makes the animals fat."
"Hungarian","The midwife should have cut his throat rather than his navel."
"Hungarian","The mills of God grind slowly, but surely."
"Hungarian","The Moor has done his duty, the Moor may go."
"Hungarian","The mouth of a treading horse is not muzzled."
"Hungarian","The castle of Buda was not built in one day."
"Hungarian","The neighbour's meadow is always greener."
"Hungarian","The horse has to pull as the horse is also pulled."
"Hungarian","The person who trusts is happy; the person who doubts is wise."
"Hungarian","The pitcher goes so long to the well, until it breaks."
"Hungarian","The place of an unbidden guest is behind the door."
"Hungarian","The pole of his cart is pointing outwards."
"Hungarian","The proof of the pudding is eating it."
"Hungarian","The purpose consecrates the means."
"Hungarian","The right hand does not know what the left is doing."
"Hungarian","The room and the stove are one item."
"Hungarian","The rope breaks where it is thinnest."
"Hungarian","The sack has found its patch."
"Hungarian","The sky's stone does not strike the nettle."
"Hungarian","Other people's eggs have two yolks."
"Hungarian","The nail sticks out of the sack."
"Hungarian","The forest has an ear, the field has an eye."
"Hungarian","The soul is retained in it only by the prayer."
"Hungarian","The common horse has scars on his back."
"Hungarian","The congregation is poor, the priest rings the bell himself."
"Hungarian","The crowd is not led by the head but by the heart."
"Hungarian","The Danube could be dammed by them."
"Hungarian","The developments have led to the breaking if bread."
"Hungarian","The devil does not sleep."
"Hungarian","The devil is not so black as he is painted."
"Hungarian","The difference between them is like that between sky and earth."
"Hungarian","The dog barks but caravan goes on."
"Hungarian","The dog is buried here."
"Hungarian","The dry leaves do not rustle if no wind blows."
"Hungarian","The horse that draws better is beaten."
"Hungarian","The flavour of health is given by an illness."
"Hungarian","The horse should worry, he has a big head."
"Hungarian","The former highwayman men are the best gendarmes."
"Hungarian","The garret is full of promises."
"Hungarian","The grape is sour."
"Hungarian","The great thief escapes, the small one hangs."
"Hungarian","The gypsy is not accustomed to ploughing."
"Hungarian","The hand of each saint inclines towards himself."
"Hungarian","The hangman is being hanged."
"Hungarian","The head of each stick is at its end."
"Hungarian","The helve of the lost hatchet."
"Hungarian","The hoar-frost is still to come for the dog."
"Hungarian","The horse has four legs, still the stumbles."
"Hungarian","The cat also likes fish but keeps away from water."
"Hungarian","The exception confirms the rule."
"Hungarian","Even on old goat likes to lick salt."
"Hungarian","He drinks like a brushmaker."
"Hungarian","Either he gets accustomed or he escapes."
"Hungarian","Even a blind hen can find a grain."
"Hungarian","Even a heavy burden is light if lifted by many."
"Hungarian","Even a little is more than nothing."
"Hungarian","Even a quadruped stumbles."
"Hungarian","Even an owl is a judge in her cave."
"Hungarian","Even Christ's coffin was not guarded for nothing."
"Hungarian","Even God cannot satisfy everyone."
"Hungarian","Even God our Lord has given way to a drunken man."
"Hungarian","Even good tree has, sometimes bad fruit."
"Hungarian","Even if gypsy children are dropped from the sky."
"Hungarian","Don't speak my mouth, I shall have no headache."
"Hungarian","Even of a good thing too much is harmful."
"Hungarian","Don't leave the betrodden way for the untrodden one."
"Hungarian","Even one hundred words lead to one end."
"Hungarian","Even our fingers are not equal."
"Hungarian","Even something light is heavy for the unwilling."
"Hungarian","Even the best tree sometimes has bad fruit."
"Hungarian","Even the highway leading to Hell is paved with good intentions."
"Hungarian","Even the luck of a poor man is poor."
"Hungarian","Even the most welcome guest is more than enough for three days."
"Hungarian","Even the mother cannot understand the words of a dumb child."
"Hungarian","Even the sparrows chirp it."
"Hungarian","Even the wall has an ear."
"Hungarian","Even the white lily casts a shadow."
"Hungarian","Even you are not better than the linen of Deak's wife."
"Hungarian","Every beginning is hard."
"Hungarian","Even if the wound is healed, the scar of it remains."
"Hungarian","Dish and spoon cannot be without jingling."
"Hungarian","Blushing is the paint of good habits."
"Hungarian","Both the goat has enough to eat and the cabbage remains."
"Hungarian","Braying of an ass or barking of a dog, is not heard in Heaven."
"Hungarian","Bread borrowed should be returned."
"Hungarian","Cheap meat yields dilute soup."
"Hungarian","Cleanliness is half-health."
"Hungarian","Clothes do not make the man."
"Hungarian","Clothes make the man."
"Hungarian","Cobbler, do not go beyond the last."
"Hungarian","Come a little closer when your sword is too short."
"Hungarian","Come hell or high water."
"Hungarian","Covard people have no homeland."
"Hungarian","Each should sweep before his own house."
"Hungarian","De dismounts the tent-poles."
"Hungarian","Every man kindles the fire below his own pot."
"Hungarian","Do it yourself sir, if you have not servant."
"Hungarian","Do more things by wisdom than by force."
"Hungarian","Do not count your chicken before they are hatched."
"Hungarian","Do not drink in advance on the hide of a bear."
"Hungarian","Do not expect good in return for a good deed."
"Hungarian","Do not look at the tooth of a gift horse."
"Hungarian","Do not look for something, where it isn't."
"Hungarian","Do not put off till tomorrow what you can do today."
"Hungarian","Do not run after a cart that will not take you."
"Hungarian","Do not trust even your own shirt."
"Hungarian","Do not waste your ginger on pigs."
"Hungarian","Dog and cat friendship."
"Hungarian","Don't cry, over spilt milk."
"Hungarian","Coward people have no country of their own."
"Hungarian","He combines the pleasant with the useful."
"Hungarian","Goo tool means half the work."
"Hungarian","Good wine needs no signboard, bush."
"Hungarian","Have a close look at the mother and then marry her daughter."
"Hungarian","Having no ointment and box why do you pose as hairdresser."
"Hungarian","He adds on more shovelfulon it."
"Hungarian","He became in idol of salt."
"Hungarian","He boasts, with foreign feathers."
"Hungarian","He brought motion in a quiet life."
"Hungarian","He builds castles in the air."
"Hungarian","He buys a cat in a poke."
"Hungarian","He can get money in desert."
"Hungarian","He can live even on flat ice."
"Hungarian","Every cock is master upon his own dunghill."
"Hungarian","He cannot see the wood for the trees."
"Hungarian","God is the doctor of the man who quarrels with his master."
"Hungarian","He confides the cabbage to the goat."
"Hungarian","He considers it as straw of, the landowner Csaky."
"Hungarian","He could not earn enough to buy even cold water."
"Hungarian","He crushes pepper under the nose of somebody."
"Hungarian","He cut his axe into a big tree."
"Hungarian","He cuts the tree under himself."
"Hungarian","He dances on a razor-edge."
"Hungarian","He did not shoot the hare but the pot is already on the fire."
"Hungarian","He disappeared like a grey donkey in the fog."
"Hungarian","He does not even know whether it is a pumpkin or a curd-cake."
"Hungarian","He does not hide his opinion under a bushel."
"Hungarian","He does not put crosswise even one stalk of straw."
"Hungarian","He draws everything to one last."
"Hungarian","He can see the splinter in another's eye but cannot see even the beam in his own."
"Hungarian","For good work time is needed."
"Hungarian","Between two chairs he falls below the bench."
"Hungarian","Every man should practise only his trade."
"Hungarian","Every one carries his own skin to the market."
"Hungarian","Every wonder lasts three days."
"Hungarian","Everyone greets others with a hat he has got."
"Hungarian","Everyone his own trouble."
"Hungarian","Everyone is the blacksmith of his own fortune."
"Hungarian","Everything has its time."
"Hungarian","Everything is good as it is."
"Hungarian","?Work is burning under his hand."
"Hungarian","Facts are stubborn things."
"Hungarian","Fair words are not enough to an empty belly."
"Hungarian","Fish stinks from the head on."
"Hungarian","Gold is gold even in the mud."
"Hungarian","Give me, my Lord, but do it immediately."
"Hungarian","Every gypsy prises his own horse."
"Hungarian","God has taken him to a high position."
"Hungarian","God does not beat one with a stick."
"Hungarian","Go slowly, you get farther."
"Hungarian","Gnawing on bones is for dogs having teeth."
"Hungarian","For a thirsty ox dirty water will do as well."
"Hungarian","Give the devil your little finger, you will be taken entirely."
"Hungarian","For an bystander nothing is precious."
"Hungarian","Give lodgement to a Slovak and you will be beaten out of your home."
"Hungarian","Give a Hungarian a glass of water and a Gypsy fiddler and he will become completely drunk."
"Hungarian","Friday is longer than Saturday."
"Hungarian","Fortune favours the fool."
"Hungarian","Forbidden fruit is sweeter."
"Hungarian","God neither hurries, nor is late."
"Hungarian","Give the emperor what is the emperors and God what is Gods."
"Hungarian","A master's request is a command."
"Hungarian","A hungry pig dreams of acorns."
"Hungarian","A king of Whitsuntide."
"Hungarian","A lad on the dam."
"Hungarian","A late repentance is a dogs idea."
"Hungarian","A lazy man works twice."
"Hungarian","A leopard cannot change his spots."
"Hungarian","A liar is caught sooner than a lame dog."
"Hungarian","A liar is not believed even if he tells the truth."
"Hungarian","A little pot quickly boils."
"Hungarian","A living dog is better than a dead lion."
"Hungarian","A loan, though old, is not a gift."
"Hungarian","A man coming from far away tells us what he wants."
"Hungarian","A roast pigeon will not fly into one's mouth."
"Hungarian","A man with good judgment does not make the goat his gardener."
"Hungarian","A habit is first a wanderer, then a guest, and finally the boss."
"Hungarian","A mester is a master in hell as well."
"Hungarian","A new broom sweeps well."
"Hungarian","A new pot retains its first scent."
"Hungarian","A new sieve is on a nail, then it gets under the bed."
"Hungarian","A nut is good if broken, a women if beaten."
"Hungarian","A poor man cooks with water."
"Hungarian","A poor man is pulled even by the branch of a tree."
"Hungarian","A promise is a nice word, if kept then it is all right."
"Hungarian","A prudent man does not make the goat his gardener."
"Hungarian","A puff of wind and popular praise weigh alike."
"Hungarian","A rain in May is golden."
"Hungarian","A raven does not pick out raven's eye."
"Hungarian","Blood will not turn water."
"Hungarian","A man of character is resistant to temptation."
"Hungarian","A drowning man catches even at a stalk of straw."
"Hungarian","A bad penny always turns up."
"Hungarian","A bashful beggar has an empty wallet."
"Hungarian","A bashful beggar will have an empty wallet."
"Hungarian","A beaten one carries an unbeaten."
"Hungarian","A bent head is not touched by the sword."
"Hungarian","A bird is recognized by her feathers, a man by his friend."
"Hungarian","A blind leads a sightless."
"Hungarian","A busy women has a lazy daughter, a lazy women has a busy daughter."
"Hungarian","A child, a drunkard and a fool tell the truth."
"Hungarian","A clever master turns even a loss into a gain."
"Hungarian","A clever pig extracts a deep root."
"Hungarian","A crow does not louse the buffalo to clean him but to feed himself."
"Hungarian","A crow does not pick out the crow's eye."
"Hungarian","A hen that cackles much lays only a few eggs."
"Hungarian","A golden key fits every door."
"Hungarian","A scalded dog fears even the rain."
"Hungarian","A great stone fell down from his heart."
"Hungarian","A good wife is the crown of the house."
"Hungarian","A good priest learns until his death."
"Hungarian","A good neighbour is better than many bad kinsmen."
"Hungarian","A dog that barks does not bite."
"Hungarian","A good beginning is half success."
"Hungarian","A dogs broken bone will soon be healed."
"Hungarian","A fool stumbles twice at the same stone."
"Hungarian","A fool may throw a stone into a well which a hundred wise cannot take out."
"Hungarian","A fool can tell only foolish things."
"Hungarian","A flatterer is a secret enemy."
"Hungarian","A falcon will not breed a dove."
"Hungarian","A hasty work is seldom good."
"Hungarian","A good excuse is never bad."
"Hungarian","Bad money is never lost."
"Hungarian","An old spinster is not worth more than an unposted letter."
"Hungarian","An ox can be taken by his horn, a man by his word."
"Hungarian","An ox remains an ox, even if driven to Vienna."
"Hungarian","An unwanted helper gets droppings as payment."
"Hungarian","Anger is a bad counsellor."
"Hungarian","Anything big is small at the beginning."
"Hungarian","Anything done willingly is not hard, difficult to do."
"Hungarian","Appearance cheats."
"Hungarian","Appetite comes while eating."
"Hungarian","As it falls so it plumps."
"Hungarian","As many men as many opinions."
"Hungarian","As one makes his bed, so he sleeps his dream."
"Hungarian","A red dog, a read horse, a red man - none of them are good."
"Hungarian","As the tree falls, it will lie."
"Hungarian","An empty pantry has a fool housewife."
"Hungarian","Bad news proceeds by wings, good news hardly walks."
"Hungarian","Bargain like a gypsy, but pay like a gentleman."
"Hungarian","Barking of dogs cannot be heard in heaven."
"Hungarian","Be as be may."
"Hungarian","Believe in women as in the weather in April."
"Hungarian","Beloved children have many names."
"Hungarian","Bend the tree while is a twig."
"Hungarian","Better a sparrow today than a bustard tomorrow."
"Hungarian","Better dry bread in peacetime than meat in wartime."
"Hungarian","Better late than never."
"Hungarian","Better to fear than to be frightened."
"Hungarian","Better to return from half-way than to take a wrong road."
"Hungarian","He defends the honour of the uniform."
"Hungarian","As one sows, so he reaps."
"Hungarian","Against a thousand crows one stone is enough."
"Hungarian","A shy beggar has an empty scrip."
"Hungarian","A sleeping fox catches no hare, chicken."
"Hungarian","A sly cat makes a big jump."
"Hungarian","A stone moved often gathers no moss."
"Hungarian","A storm in a glass of water."
"Hungarian","A thorn in the flesh."
"Hungarian","A three day long merry-making and regret lasting till death."
"Hungarian","A tree is not felled at one stroke."
"Hungarian","Accidents may happen to anyone."
"Hungarian","Adam ate the apple, and our teeth still ache."
"Hungarian","After death the doctor."
"Hungarian","After meat, mustard."
"Hungarian","After rain, comes raincoat."
"Hungarian","An iron ring made of wood."
"Hungarian","Although pepper is tiny, its taste is intense."
"Hungarian","Black Christmas, white Easter."
"Hungarian","An empty ear holds its head upright."
"Hungarian","An empty barrel sounds better."
"Hungarian","An elephant in the china shop."
"Hungarian","An arrow once shot is hard to get back."
"Hungarian","After three days the place of the guest is behind the door outside."
"Hungarian","Among many midwives the child is lost."
"Hungarian","After work rest is sweet."
"Hungarian","All roads lead to Rom."
"Hungarian","All is well if the end is well."
"Hungarian","All is not gold that glitters."
"Hungarian","All cows are black in the dark."
"Hungarian","All are not your friends who smile at you."
"Hungarian","An eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth."
"Hungarian","Among the blind the one-eyed is the king."
"Hungarian","He is the kid of our dog."
"Hungarian","He preaches water and drinks wine."
"Hungarian","He kills two flies with one flap."
"Hungarian","He keeps two irons in the fire."
"Hungarian","He keeps silent, like a deaf pig in the wheat-field."
"Hungarian","He issues a certificate of poverty of himself."
"Hungarian","He is well known as bad money."
"Hungarian","He laughs really, best who laughs last."
"Hungarian","He is turning his coat according to the wind."
"Hungarian","He left for Foldvar to sell boards."
"Hungarian","He is rich who owes nothing."
"Hungarian","He is one pamphlet behind, the others."
"Hungarian","He is like water shaking in a wash tub."
"Hungarian","He is ground between two millstones."
"Hungarian","He is good, only the devils are bad, for not carrying him away."
"Hungarian","He is flaying the same bock."
"Hungarian","He is unable to cope with the situation any longer."
"Hungarian","He makes the hare spring out of the bush."
"Hungarian","There is a limit to everything."
"Hungarian","He plays with somebody as a cat plays with a mouse."
"Hungarian","He plays with open cards."
"Hungarian","He owed the devil a journey."
"Hungarian","He names a rope in the house of a man that was hanged."
"Hungarian","He moves all the stones, to achieve something."
"Hungarian","He knows as much about it as a hen does about the alphabet."
"Hungarian","He may eat it or not, he wont get anything else."
"Hungarian","He is as poor as a church mouse."
"Hungarian","He makes someone else get he chestnut from the fire."
"Hungarian","He makes an elephant out of a mosquito."
"Hungarian","He looks for a needle in a bundle of hay."
"Hungarian","He lives like Marci in Heves."
"Hungarian","He likes it, as a goat likes the knife, that kills him."
"Hungarian","He lies as if he read from a book."
"Hungarian","He may go to the salt-office."
"Hungarian","He fills one hole with another."
"Hungarian","He got into this affair like Pilate into the Credo."
"Hungarian","He goes to see fire in the house."
"Hungarian","He goes around it like a cat goes around hot mush."
"Hungarian","He gives twice who gives quickly."
"Hungarian","He gets green way."
"Hungarian","He gets green light."
"Hungarian","He is doing a fireman's work."
"Hungarian","He fishes in troubled waters."
"Hungarian","He guards it, him like his eyesight."
"Hungarian","He fights windmills."
"Hungarian","He fell to the other side of the horse."
"Hungarian","He explains away his report."
"Hungarian","He drives the water to the mill of somebody."
"Hungarian","He drinks like a fish."
"Hungarian","He who grasps much, retains but little."
"Hungarian","He forges a virtue on necessity."
"Hungarian","He has passed the road to Damascus."
"Hungarian","He pulls the honeyed string before him or before his nose."
"Hungarian","He is as impertinent as a fly at the market."
"Hungarian","He is afraid of it, as the devil fears holy water or incense."
"Hungarian","He is a spoon in all liquids."
"Hungarian","He holds out a carrot to somebody."
"Hungarian","He hits the nail on the head."
"Hungarian","He got out of the bed with the left leg."
"Hungarian","He has put bad wood on the fire."
"Hungarian","He got out of the bucket and got into the pail."
"Hungarian","He has hit the udder between the horns."
"Hungarian","He danced bound hand and foot."
"Hungarian","He has caught the leg of God."
"Hungarian","He has a finger in every pie."
"Hungarian","He has a coat-affair."
"Hungarian","He hangs out the dirty linen, to the public."
"Hungarian","He is between two fires."
"Hungarian","He has stirred up, or threw a stone into, still water."
"Hungarian","He threw in the towel."
"Hungarian","He pours oil on the fire."
"Hungarian","He turns his coat, according to the wind."
"Hungarian","He tries to find his horse and is riding it."
"Hungarian","He treads downwards, on his subordinates and bows upwards, before his superiors."
"Hungarian","He ties the dog to the post."
"Hungarian","He throws the hatchet."
"Hungarian","He turns like a weathercock."
"Hungarian","He threw the reins between the horses."
"Hungarian","He was carved of hard wood."
"Hungarian","He that seeks, finds."
"Hungarian","He that says a, should also say b."
"Hungarian","He that lies also steals."
"Hungarian","He that is not a master of something, is a butcher of it."
"Hungarian","He that is afraid of water, will not get into the boat."
"Hungarian","He that hurries will be late."
"Hungarian","He throws the beater too far."
"Hungarian","He who begins many things, finished but few."
"Hungarian","He who gets up early finds gold."
"Hungarian","He who gains time, gains life."
"Hungarian","He who does not collect in summer, will heat little in winter."
"Hungarian","He who digs a pit for the horse of another man, will find his own horse's neck broken there."
"Hungarian","He who digs a pit for others, falls into it himself."
"Hungarian","He who comes late gets bones for lunch."
"Hungarian","He turns in his grave."
"Hungarian","He who cannot speak Arabic, should not speak Arabic."
"Hungarian","He talks one's head off."
"Hungarian","He who accepts the gift loses his liberty."
"Hungarian","He whets his teeth on something."
"Hungarian","He washes his hand."
"Hungarian","He was thrown into deep water."
"Hungarian","He was snatched by the belt."
"Hungarian","He was left behind like the Wallachians by St. Paul."
"Hungarian","He who climbs high, has a great fall."
"Hungarian","He refused to carry on in a leading position."
"Hungarian","He shaves a bald head."
"Hungarian","He sews the jacket to the button."
"Hungarian","He seizes the lighter end of the matter."
"Hungarian","He seeks a knot even on the rush."
"Hungarian","He rushes into the houses together with the door."
"Hungarian","He respects neither God, nor man."
"Hungarian","He that does not work, shall not eat either."
"Hungarian","He released the spirit from the bottle."
"Hungarian","He shows the whiteness of his teeth."
"Hungarian","He reckons without his host."
"Hungarian","He reads between the lines."
"Hungarian","He puts the dot on the i."
"Hungarian","He puts out the eye of somebody with something."
"Hungarian","He puts on the right/wrong horse."
"Hungarian","He puts his hand into a wasp's nest."
"Hungarian","He removes the baptismal water from somebody."
"Hungarian","He stumbled upwards."
"Hungarian","He has already one foot in the grave."
"Hungarian","He talks a hole into the belly of somebody."
"Hungarian","He takes the wind out of someone's sails."
"Hungarian","He takes over the baton."
"Hungarian","He sweeps the problem under the carpet."
"Hungarian","He swallows the frog."
"Hungarian","He shoots at sparrows with a, high calibre, gun."
"Hungarian","He succeeded like Bertok with the loach."
"Hungarian","He shouts snake and frog at somebody."
"Hungarian","He sticks out of the line."
"Hungarian","He steps out of the line."
"Hungarian","He stares at the new gate as a calf."
"Hungarian","He stands there like a donkey on the hill."
"Hungarian","He stands the mud."
"Hungarian","He sings the same old song."
"Hungarian","He tells, does something to somebody without announcement."
"Hungarian","He swallows the bitter pill."
"Hungarian","He has discovered the sealing wax."
"Hungarian","Adam ate the apple, and our teeth still ache."
"Hungarian","The believer is happy; the doubter is wise."
"Hungarian","A puff of wind and popular praise weigh alike."
"Hungarian","A flatterer is a secret enemy."
"Hungarian","The wife of a careless man is almost a widow."
"Hungarian","A prudent man does not make the goat his gardener."
"Ibo","What an elder sees sitting; the young can't see standing."
"Ibo","Words are sweet, but they never take the place of food."
"Ibo","Wherever something stands, another thing stands beside it."
"Ibo","A baby on its mother's back doesn't know the journey is long."
"Ibo","When a new saying gets to the land of empty men they lose their heads over it."
"Ibo","The rain does not recognize anyone as a friend; it drenches all equally."
"Ibo","The eye is not harmed by sleep."
"Ibo","Shall we kill a snake and carry it in our hand when we have a bag for putting long things in?"
"Ibo","Ours is ours, but mine is mine."
"Ibo","Never kill a man who says nothing."
"Ibo","If you want to eat a toad, you should look for a fat and juicy one."
"Ibo","Book stands by itself and experience stands by itself."
"Ibo","Anger against a brother is felt in the flesh, not in the bone."
"Ibo","Always being in a hurry does not prevent death, neither does going slowly prevent living."
"Ibo","A man who lives on the banks of the Niger should not wash his hands with spittle."
"Ibo","A debt may get moldy, but it never decays."
"Ibo","Never let any mechanical device know that you are in a hurry."
"Ibo","When the brothers fight to the death, a stranger inherits their father's estate."
"Ibo","A bird that flies off the earth and lands on an anthill is still on the ground."
"Ibo","Never kill a man who says nothing."
"Ibo","Never let any mechanical device know that you are in a hurry."
"Icelandic","Gold glitters in what is thrown away."
"Icelandic","No one wants to remember his childhood."
"Icelandic","No one has mercy by Magnus."
"Icelandic","Need is not governed by the law."
"Icelandic","Need is a bad negotiator."
"Icelandic","Necessity teaches naked woman to spin."
"Icelandic","My enemy isn't the one who harms me, but the one who makes me evil."
"Icelandic","More flies mean more food."
"Icelandic","People come where people are."
"Icelandic","Much always longs for more."
"Icelandic","Not much is worse than a troll."
"Icelandic","Often a troll-woman is under fair skin, and virtue under dark hair."
"Icelandic","Often does one desire what one does not need."
"Icelandic","On the ladder to success there is always somebody on the rung above you and who uses your head to steady himself."
"Icelandic","On thin ice everybody have the same strength."
"Icelandic","One droops before one dies."
"Icelandic","One enemy is too many; 100 friends are far too few."
"Icelandic","Money makes monkeys of men."
"Icelandic","Our good life sure is there for us, unless we learned some bad conduct in our home as children."
"Icelandic","It is better one time to see things than one hundred times to hear about them."
"Icelandic","One half our fatherlands is the ocean."
"Icelandic","Every man likes the smell of his own farts."
"Icelandic","He who puts giants to flight rapidly advances."
"Icelandic","His door already has the hard part of the journey behind him."
"Icelandic","Hunger, work, and sweat are the best herbs."
"Icelandic","Iceland is the best land on which the sun shines."
"Icelandic","If one calls in the forest will one get a response."
"Icelandic","If only the wind would turn before I go home, said the woman rowing against the wind."
"Icelandic","If the icy snow carries you at midsummer, then we can expect a late spring."
"Icelandic","If you cry because the sun has gone out of your life, your tears will prevent you from seeing the stars."
"Icelandic","If you get lost in an Icelandic forest, simply stand up and you will find your way."
"Icelandic","It is better to suffer in name the truth than being rewarded for lying."
"Icelandic","If you wish to know what a man is, make him king."
"Icelandic","Hate not the man, but the weakness."
"Icelandic","It is better to be a master in a cottage than servant in a castle."
"Icelandic","Pissing in your shoes won't keep your feet warm for long."
"Icelandic","It is difficult to steal when the boss is a thief."
"Icelandic","It would be good to have two mouths and speak to yourself with both."
"Icelandic","It?s better to stand on your own feet than someone else?s."
"Icelandic","Least said, soonest mended."
"Icelandic","Let him who has enough be satisfied."
"Icelandic","Mediocrity is climbing molehills without sweating."
"Icelandic","Men do not limp while their legs are the same length."
"Icelandic","If you travel for a day, take bread for a week."
"Icelandic","A quarter depends on cultivation."
"Icelandic","An unlucky girl may make a good woman."
"Icelandic","An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure."
"Icelandic","An offer of friendship to a friend's foe is unbecoming an honorable man."
"Icelandic","Although he comes and cuts me down, I'll grow next spring."
"Icelandic","All sails do not suit every ship."
"Icelandic","All old sayings have something in them."
"Icelandic","All is not gold that glistereth."
"Icelandic","A system that works is worth golden."
"Icelandic","Everyone gets argr as he gets older."
"Icelandic","A sitting crow starves."
"Icelandic","Better shoeless than bookless."
"Icelandic","A man's will can be his paradise, but it can also be his hell."
"Icelandic","A man yearns for his paradise but it could become his hell."
"Icelandic","A man without a book is blind."
"Icelandic","A man too busy to take care of his health is like a farmer too lazy to plant his field."
"Icelandic","A greasy kitchen; a will with not much in it."
"Icelandic","A fat woman warms the night."
"Icelandic","A fall bodes a lucky journey from the house but not toward it."
"Icelandic","A dog bites the stone, not him who throws it."
"Icelandic","A bad rower blames the oar."
"Icelandic","A story is only half told if there is only one side presented."
"Icelandic","Dragons often rise up on their tail."
"Icelandic","Sin is not perfect until one prides oneself on it."
"Icelandic","Slow and sure."
"Icelandic","Gold and green woods."
"Icelandic","God helps those who help themselves."
"Icelandic","Few are like father, no one is like mother."
"Icelandic","Fertile is water that runs under lava."
"Icelandic","Everyone wants to live long, but no one wants to be called old."
"Icelandic","Every story has two sides and every song has twelve versions."
"Icelandic","He that would hang his dog gives out first that he is mad."
"Icelandic","Bad birds seldom bring good weather."
"Icelandic","Easily grasped are the crimes of a hog."
"Icelandic","Be straightforward in all your dealing and noble with strangers."
"Icelandic","Cultures are born and die, but the cheese is immortal."
"Icelandic","Christ is powerful, but more powerful is destiny."
"Icelandic","Character is always corrupted by prosperity."
"Icelandic","Cattle die, kinsmen die, and so shall you die too. But one thing I know that never dies: the fame of a dead man's deeds."
"Icelandic","Blind is a man without a book."
"Icelandic","Beware the man who does not drink."
"Icelandic","Better wise language than well combed hair."
"Icelandic","Better to drink the milk than to eat the cow."
"Icelandic","She who dances with the chimney sweeper will eventually end up black."
"Icelandic","Every honest miller has a thumb of gold."
"Icelandic","Words of insults are futile, the more they fit, the more they are lost."
"Icelandic","He who knows only few things, has little to forget."
"Icelandic","He who lives without discipline dies without honor."
"Icelandic","Speak the truth, but keep one hand on the sword."
"Icelandic","You will reach your destination even though you travel slowly."
"Icelandic","You will not choke on big words and pig fat."
"Icelandic","You do not really know your friends from your enemies until the ice breaks."
"Icelandic","Wrath often consumes what god gives husbands."
"Icelandic","When your neighbor's wall breaks, your own is in danger."
"Icelandic","Useless wisdom is doulbe foolishness."
"Icelandic","Useless wisdom is double foolishness."
"Icelandic","Two make an army against one."
"Icelandic","Trusty as a troll."
"Icelandic","Tomorrow says the lazy."
"Icelandic","There men so poor that the only thing they have is money."
"Icelandic","Talk doesn't plow the field."
"Icelandic","Speak what needs to be said, or stay silenth."
"Icelandic","Spoken words cannot be taken back."
"Icelandic","You can't complain about the sea if you suffer shipwreck for the second time."
"Icelandic","There are seven different kind of weather in one autumn night."
"Icelandic","Strong legs are needed to carry good days."
"Icelandic","Sweet is the smell from your own ass."
"Icelandic","Tell me who you walk with, and I'll tell you who you are."
"Icelandic","The generous and bold have the best lives."
"Icelandic","The man is as good as the day is long."
"Icelandic","The more renowned woman often has fewer rings."
"Icelandic","The revenge that is postponed is not forgotten."
"Icelandic","The sun that melts the wox is the same that hardens the mud."
"Icelandic","The twigs are rarely better than the trunk."
"Icelandic","All old sayings have something in them."
"Icelandic","Mediocrity is climbing molehills without sweating."
"Icelandic","Wrath often consumes what god gives husbands."
"Idoman","The mouth which ate pepper is the one which pepper affected."
"Igbo","The lizard would like to stand erect, but his tail will not permit him."
"Igbo","Knowing but not telling it is what kills old men. Hearing but not heeding it is what kills young men."
"Igbo","The mind is like a bag; everyone has one."
"Igbo","The big game often appears when the hunter has given up the hunt for the day."
"Igbo","The little puppy said: ""If I fall down and roll over for you, and you fall down and roll over for me, then we are playing. However, if I fall down and roll over for you, but you do not fall down and roll over for me, then that's a fight."""
"Igbo","If you wish to eat a mushroom, you cannot consider what the mushroom fed on."
"Igbo","The dog said that it is better to walk behind those who have had a lot to eat, because if something doesn't come out of them one way, it is bound to come out of them another way."
"Igbo","The lizard says that he knows the condition of his underbelly.?The reason he has it pressed against the ground."
"Igbo","The best way to eat hot soup is little by little."
"Igbo","Swearing in the name of one god while at the shrine of another god."
"Igbo","Stream said that it is because it has nobody to direct it that... it goes in a zigzag way."
"Igbo","One who knows everything at times draws water with a basket."
"Igbo","One first drives off the fox, before taking the chickens home and blaming them for straying."
"Igbo","Let the kite hawk have a perch, and let the eagle also have a perch. Whichever begrudges the other the right to perch, may he break a wing."
"Igbo","The piglet has the same type of snout as her mother."
"Igbo","When a person is not as she used to be, she does not behave as she used to behave."
"Igbo","In the daytime do we chase the black goat."
"Igbo","No one gets a mouthful of food by picking between another person's teeth."
"Igbo","When the music stops, a deaf person continues to dance."
"Igbo","What gives the child the itch has already given him the fingernails for scratching it."
"Igbo","Whatever the type of firewood found in a place, it is usually good enough for the people of that place to cook with."
"Igbo","When a drunk meets a mad man, he learns the difference between being merely drunk and truly mad."
"Igbo","When a drunken man meets a mad man, he learns the difference between being merely drunk and being truly mad."
"Igbo","When a once-beautiful piece of cloth has turned into rags, no one remembers that it was woven by Ukwa master weavers."
"Igbo","A wayward woman is like the weaver bird. She uses her perch on one tree to scout other trees."
"Igbo","When a poor man gets a little money, his thoughts go off in ten different directions."
"Igbo","When a very short man causes the market to break up in a big fight, bystanders ask him to stand up so that they can see how short he really is."
"Igbo","When the mother goat breaks into the yam store her kid watches her."
"Igbo","The prince is never guilty in his father's court."
"Igbo","Whether it was the tenant who seduced the landlord's wife, or the landlord who seduced the tenant's wife, it is the tenant who would leave the house."
"Igbo","Whichever son is able should bury his father. The first son did not kill him."
"Igbo","While the wooden idols are tormenting me, the termites are tormenting them."
"Igbo","You may be clever but you can never lose your shadow."
"Igbo","The world is like a goat's udder. It does not yile any milk, unless you punch and squeeze at it."
"Igbo","The skunk rat can get as fat and plump as he pleases. If his whole hind leg costs one anini, I still will not buy it."
"Igbo","The same rain that drenches the slave also drenches the slave driver."
"Igbo","The riverside monkey is apt to be blamed for every twig found in the river."
"Igbo","When the leopard has a broken paw, the antellope comes to collect an old debt."
"Igbo","A man who rushes into battle does not realize that battle entails death."
"Igbo","All you can tell about a big belly is that the owner has had a lot to eat, not what he had to eat."
"Igbo","A person who is being carried to the market does not realize that the way is long."
"Igbo","A person who happens by a neighbor's house at dinner time, and is invited to join the meal, does not swallow such large morsels as to break the string of pearls around his neck."
"Igbo","A person who chases a chicken is due a fall. The chicken is a master of the dodged escaped."
"Igbo","A person who arrives at a feast when the cooked meat is being pulled out of the pot does not know what was endured by others to catch and cook it."
"Igbo","A person can never run so fast as to run away from his backside."
"Igbo","A palm tree climber is not expected to tell everything he sees from up above."
"Igbo","A person who uses the world as his carrying pad will find himself carrying his load on his bare head."
"Igbo","A man who shoots his arrows as he makes them does not realize when he has shot a whole sheaf."
"Igbo","A pot trader whose fortunes are all invested in her clay pots isn't much of a merchant."
"Igbo","A man who believes that he can do everything, let him dig a grave and bury himself."
"Igbo","A man has the same last name as his brother."
"Igbo","A guest should not cause his host's demise. When the guest is ready to leave, his host should not have given him a hunch-back."
"Igbo","A guest mourner does not wail as though his heart is broken."
"Igbo","A calm spirit will enable a man to survive even a six-month jail sentence."
"Igbo","A bad habit that lasts more than a year may turn into a custom."
"Igbo","Do not argue with a fool, for people will not be able to tell between the two of you."
"Igbo","Until lions have their own historians, tales of the hunt shall always glorify the hunter."
"Igbo","A man with a missing tooth does not eat ugiri with relish."
"Igbo","At whatever age a child gets a problem, at the same age she has to shoulder the responsibility."
"Igbo","If the kernels are not finished, the jaw will not rest."
"Igbo","If a young man is not prudent in seeking what killed his father, what killed his father may also kill him."
"Igbo","If a baby crawls up to me and pinches me, I will get on my knees and pinch him back."
"Igbo","He who spits towards the sky is spitting on his face."
"Igbo","God swats flies for an animal that has no tail."
"Igbo","Dog eats excreta, but goat gets rotten teeth."
"Igbo","Dancing the drum will be done where the drum is."
"Igbo","A person who underneath the tall palm tree is best positioned to tell on which side the ripe head is."
"Igbo","Bump-thump-scratch. It's all on a big man's skin."
"Igbo","If you decide to eat a toad, you should at least select one that is big."
"Igbo","An udara fruit that falls on the side of the road is asking to be eaten."
"Igbo","An udara fruit that falls by the roadside must want to be picked up and eaten."
"Igbo","A woman who needs to borrow a calabash cannot count on going early to the stream."
"Igbo","A travelled child knows better than the old man who sits at home."
"Igbo","A snake that swallows its neighbor will have a tail sticking out of its mouth."
"Igbo","A snake that swallows his friend will have a tail sticking out of his mouth."
"Igbo","A slave boy is blamed no matter what he does: If he does not wash his hands, he is accused of being dirty. If he washes his hands, he is accused of wasting water."
"Igbo","A servant serves a king, he serves the king well; a servant serves two kings, he is true to one."
"Igbo","Criticism of the brave is behind his back."
"Igbo","Everyone cut the grass. Cut the grass. Let no one call the others 'Prisoners'."
"Igbo","Until lions have their own historians, tales of the hunt shall always glorify the hunter."
"Ila","Honor a child and he will honor you."
"Ilocano","Those who are choosy often pick the worst."
"Indian","There are as many characters as there are individuals. "
"Indian","Only mad dogs and Englishmen go out in the noonday sun."
"Indian","A buffalo does not feel the weight of its own horns. "
"Indian","Pearls are worthless in the desert. "
"Indian","Most adults are attentive to what someone is doing, but children see beyond that."
"Indian","Call on God, but row away from the rocks."
"Indian","Fate and free-will both play an equal role in destinies. "
"Indian","Even if fed milk, a snake will still emit poison."
"Indian","The baby has not been born yet, and yet you assert that his nose is like his grandfathers!"
"Indian","The answerer is inferior to the asker. "
"Indian","When a crow is killed by a storm, the fortuneteller says, He died by my curse."
"Indian","A viper without fangs is like a piece of rope. "
"Indian","In the end, all foxes meet at the furrier's."
"Indian","If you live on the river, befriend the crocodile."
"Indian","If you throw a handful of stones, one at least will hit."
"Indian","In a deserted village the jackass is king."
"Indian","In a tree that you can't climb, there are always a thousand fruits."
"Indian","He who has come through the fire will fade in the sun."
"Indian","In my homeland I possess one hundred horses, yet if I go, I go on foot."
"Indian","If you call a lady a slave, she laughs, but if you call a slave a slave, he cries."
"Indian","It is a greater gift to give than to receive."
"Indian","It is better to be blind than to see things from only one point of view."
"Indian","It is better to sit down than to stand, it is better to lie down than to sit, but death is the best of all."
"Indian","It is easier to cover our feet with sandals than to cover the earth with carpets."
"Indian","In love beggar and king are equal."
"Indian","I met a hundred men going to Delhi and everyone is my brother."
"Indian","He who is a guest in two houses, starves."
"Indian","He who loves drives a nail into his heart."
"Indian","He who wants fruit should not pick flowers."
"Indian","He who works as a slave, eats as a king."
"Indian","Hunger drives good taste away."
"Indian","Hypocrisy is a homage that vice pays to virtue."
"Indian","If you live in the river you should make friends with the crocodile."
"Indian","I have lanced many boils, but none pained like my own."
"Indian","If you can't give any sugar then speak sweetly."
"Indian","If a man from humble beginnings gets rich, he will carry his umbrella at midnight."
"Indian","If not today -- when?"
"Indian","If they don't exchange a few words, father and son will never know one another."
"Indian","If we dig precious things from the land, we will invite disaster."
"Indian","If you are up to your knees in pleasure, then you are up to your waist in grief."
"Indian","It is little use to dig a well after the house has caught fire."
"Indian","I gave him a staff for his support and he uses it to break my head."
"Indian","No sin is hidden to the soul."
"Indian","It is easy to forget a kindness, but one remembers unkindness."
"Indian","Money hides in the tiger's ear."
"Indian","Money is the best servant."
"Indian","Most adults are attentive to what someone is doing, but children see beyond that."
"Indian","Never stand in front of a judge or behind a donkey."
"Indian","Never strike your wife, not even with a flower."
"Indian","Man loves his own mistakes."
"Indian","No one was ever lost on a straight road."
"Indian","Man is like a bubble of water on the ocean."
"Indian","No strength within, no respect without."
"Indian","Nonviolence is the supreme law of life."
"Indian","Not all the buds on a bush will blossom."
"Indian","Nothing is comprehensible except by virtue of its edges."
"Indian","One and one sometimes make eleven."
"Indian","One finger can't lift a pebble."
"Indian","Never use a dwarf to measure the depth of the water."
"Indian","Keep five yards from a carriage, ten yards from a horse, and a hundred yards from an elephant; but the distance one should keep from a wicked man cannot be measured."
"Indian","He who does not climb, will not fall either."
"Indian","It is love that makes the impossible possible."
"Indian","It is only in your coffin that you sleep really well."
"Indian","It is worse to excuse than to offend."
"Indian","It's a brave bird that makes its nest in the cat's ear."
"Indian","It's better to pick a fight with your in-laws than with your neighbors."
"Indian","Many families are built on laughter."
"Indian","Justice is better than admiration If you are going to kill, then kill an elephant; if you are going to steal make sure it's a treasure."
"Indian","It is hard for an ex-king to become a night watchman."
"Indian","Large desire is endless poverty."
"Indian","Learning is a treasure no thief can touch."
"Indian","Life is a bridge. Cross over it, but build no house on it."
"Indian","Life is like the flame of a lamp; it needs a little oil now and then."
"Indian","Life is not a continuum of pleasant choices, but of inevitable problems that call for strength, determination, and hard work."
"Indian","Love from someone who is bad is worse than his hatred."
"Indian","It's easy to throw something into the river but hard to get it out again."
"Indian","By joining the tail to the trunk one makes up the whole elephant."
"Indian","He who has a true friend, has no need of a mirror."
"Indian","Better than the ignorant are those who read books; better still are those who retain what they read; even better are those who understand it; the best of all are those who go to work."
"Indian","Better to have a diamond with a few small flaws than a rock that is perfect."
"Indian","Blaming your faults on your nature does not change the nature of your faults."
"Indian","Blaw the wind ne'er so fast, it will lower at last."
"Indian","Better cross-eyed than blind."
"Indian","Brains are not to be found in the beard."
"Indian","Be peaceful yet vigilant -- a sheep will bite someone without a stick."
"Indian","Call on God, but row away from the rocks."
"Indian","Clouds that thunder seldom rain."
"Indian","Deceive me about the price but not about the goods."
"Indian","Dependence on another is perpetual disappointment."
"Indian","Do not ask advice of the ignorant."
"Indian","Do not blame God for having created the tiger, but thank him for not having given it wings."
"Indian","Blind men have no need to walk."
"Indian","Anger is as a stone cast into a wasp's nest."
"Indian","All that is not given is lost."
"Indian","All the water in the sea doesn't even reach the knees of the man who fears not death."
"Indian","Always be well dressed, even when begging."
"Indian","An adder with its poisonous fangs taken out is nothing more than a piece of rope."
"Indian","An arch never sleeps."
"Indian","Better lie than gossip."
"Indian","Anger ends in cruelty."
"Indian","Don't judge any man until you have walked two moons in his moccasins."
"Indian","As day break, the glowworms say ""We've lit up the world!"""
"Indian","Austerity is an ornament, humility is honorable."
"Indian","Be bad to the bad; good to the good; be a flower to other flowers and a thorn to other thorns."
"Indian","Be careful for deep water and dogs that do not bark."
"Indian","Be first at the feast, and last at the fight."
"Indian","Be like a camel -- carrying sweets but dining on thorns."
"Indian","An old patient is better than a new doctor."
"Indian","Happy is the woman whose husband does not speak to her."
"Indian","For the friendship of two, the patience of one is required."
"Indian","Friendly words are convincing."
"Indian","Garlic is as good as ten mothers."
"Indian","God laughs when you steal from a thief."
"Indian","Good people, like clouds, receive only to give away."
"Indian","Do what the mullah says, but don't do what he does."
"Indian","Great anger is more destructive than the sword."
"Indian","Fish and guests smell when they are three days old."
"Indian","Have faith -- God calls forth life even from eggs."
"Indian","He that is baldheaded has no need of combs."
"Indian","He who allows his day to pass by without practicing generosity and enjoying life's pleasures is like a blacksmith's bellows: he breathes but does not live."
"Indian","He who answers is inferior to the one who asks the question."
"Indian","One of the two partners always bites the best part of the apple."
"Indian","He who dreams for too long will become like his shadow."
"Indian","Goodness reaches further than badness."
"Indian","Every dog is a tiger in his own street."
"Indian","Agriculture is best, enterprise is acceptable, but avoid being on a fixed wage."
"Indian","Don't just cross a river--cross it bearing fire!."
"Indian","Don't poison someone whom you can kill with sweets."
"Indian","Drops join to make a stream; ears combine to make a crop."
"Indian","Drums sound loud because they are hollow."
"Indian","Eat fire and your mouth burn; live on credit and your pride will burn."
"Indian","For the first five years of your son's life treat him as a prince, for the next ten years as a slave, then as a friend for the rest of his life."
"Indian","Even if fed milk, a snake will still emit poison."
"Indian","Follow the river and you will get to the sea."
"Indian","Every man is the guardian of his own honor."
"Indian","Faith keeps the world going."
"Indian","Fate and free-will both play an equal role in destinies."
"Indian","Fate and self-help share equally in shaping our destiny."
"Indian","First God, then the white man."
"Indian","Don't bargain for fish which are still in the water."
"Indian","Even a cat is a lion in her own lair."
"Indian","We are both queens, so who will hang out the laundry?"
"Indian","Truth has no branches."
"Indian","Under the mountains is silver and gold, But under the night sky, hunger and cold."
"Indian","Undeserved punishment is better than that which is deserved."
"Indian","Use medicine as well as prayers."
"Indian","Walking slowly, even the donkey will reach Lhasa."
"Indian","When a crow is killed by a storm, the fortuneteller says, ""He died by my curse."""
"Indian","We admire what we do not understand."
"Indian","To sing to the deaf, to talk with the dumb, and to dance for the blind are three foolish things."
"Indian","Weeping washes the face."
"Indian","What does the blind man know of the beauty of the tulip?"
"Indian","What good is giving sugar to the dead?"
"Indian","What is sport to the boy is the death of the bird."
"Indian","What was hard to bear is sweet to remember."
"Indian","There are as many characters as there are individuals."
"Indian","War is to a man what bed is to a woman."
"Indian","Those who hunt deer sometimes raise tigers."
"Indian","One man's beard is burning, and another warms his hands by it."
"Indian","There are only two things from which to choose: profit or loss."
"Indian","There are three uncertainties: woman, wind, and wealth."
"Indian","There is a great uproar made about the debt of a poor man."
"Indian","There is enmity between to dig and to let dig."
"Indian","There is no hand to catch time."
"Indian","To the world wisdom is folly; to the wise the world is foolish."
"Indian","These can never be true friends: Hope, dice, a prostitute, a robber, a cheat, a goldsmith, a monkey, a doctor, a distiller."
"Indian","To the mediocre, mediocrity appears great."
"Indian","Though the snake be small, it is still wise to hit it with a big stick."
"Indian","To give jewels to a donkey is as stupid as giving a eunuch to a woman."
"Indian","To lend is to buy a quarrel."
"Indian","To loan is to buy troubles."
"Indian","To long for everything: sorrow; to accept everything: joy."
"Indian","When a woman laughs an experienced man will know how much it will cost him."
"Indian","There is nothing noble in being superior to some other person. The true nobility is in being superior to your previous self."
"Indian","You have to believe in gods to see them."
"Indian","Worldly prosperity is like writing on water."
"Indian","Yesterday is but a dream, tomorrow but a vision. But today well lived makes every yesterday a dream of happiness, and every tomorrow a vision of hope. Look well, therefore, to this day."
"Indian","You can never enter the same river twice."
"Indian","You can often find in rivers what you cannot find in oceans."
"Indian","You can only lean against that which resists."
"Indian","When a camel is at the foot of a mountain only then judge his height."
"Indian","You do not stumble over a mountain, but you do over a stone."
"Indian","Why save when your son is a good son? Why save when your son is a bad son?"
"Indian","You may lock up the cock, but the sun will still rise."
"Indian","You may look up for inspiration or look down in desperation but do not look sideways for information."
"Indian","You may never die before death arrives."
"Indian","You must answer the devil in his own language."
"Indian","You should not call in a cat to settle the argument of two birds."
"Indian","Your own wealth is flowers and wine; the other man's is but weeds."
"Indian","You cannot separate water by beating it with a fork."
"Indian","When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced. Live your life in such a manner that when you die, the world cries and you rejoice."
"Indian","When an elephant is in trouble, even a frog will kick him."
"Indian","When money is not a servant it is a master."
"Indian","When the bed breaks, there is the ground to lie on."
"Indian","When the sculptor is dead his statues ask him for a soul."
"Indian","When we take one step toward to God, he takes seven steps toward us."
"Indian","When you are in difficulty, go to the house of your friend -- not your sister's."
"Indian","Without men in the neighborhood all the women are chaste."
"Indian","When you have an ass for a friend, expect nothing but kicks."
"Indian","Without love everything is in vain."
"Indian","Where the needle goes, the thread follows."
"Indian","Where the sun shines, there is also shade."
"Indian","Where there is a glut of words, there is a dearth of intelligence."
"Indian","Who is blind? He who can see no other world. Who is dumb? He who can say nothing pleasant about his lot. Who is poor? He who is troubled with too many desires. Who is rich? He who is happy with his lot."
"Indian","Whoever eats a pancake never counts the holes in it."
"Indian","Theologians, dogs, and singers always disagree."
"Indian","When you drink milk under the palm tree, people will say that it is palm wine."
"Indian","The answerer is inferior to the asker."
"Indian","Sit on the bank of a river and wait: Your enemy's corpse will soon float by."
"Indian","Smiles that you broadcast, will always come back to you."
"Indian","Something done at the wrong time should be regarded as not done."
"Indian","Speak like a parrot; meditate like a swan; chew like a goat; and bathe like an elephant."
"Indian","Stolen sugar is the sweetest."
"Indian","The deceitful have no friends."
"Indian","The ambitious one makes friends with the elephant, then tramples upon the ant."
"Indian","Separation secures manifest friendship."
"Indian","The baby has not been born yet, and yet you assert that his nose is like his grandfather's."
"Indian","The baby is not yet born, and yet you say that his nose is like his grandfather's."
"Indian","The cobra will bite you whether you call it cobra or Mr. Cobra."
"Indian","The cock goes to town for only four days and returns home a peacock."
"Indian","The crab instructs its young: ""Walk straight ahead -- like me."""
"Indian","There are many people who can sing, but don't know the words."
"Indian","That which blossoms must also decay."
"Indian","Pearls are worthless in the desert."
"Indian","True happiness lies in giving it to others."
"Indian","One person can burn water, while another can't even burn oil."
"Indian","Only mad dogs and Englishmen go out in the noonday sun."
"Indian","Only the hunchback himself knows how he can lie comfortably."
"Indian","Only the nightingale understands the rose."
"Indian","Only two things matter in this world: a son and a daughter."
"Indian","Since love departs at dawn, create, O God, a night that has no morn."
"Indian","Pearls are of no value in a desert."
"Indian","September blow soft till the fruit's in the loft."
"Indian","Poverty destroys all virtues."
"Indian","Poverty makes thieves, like love makes poets."
"Indian","Pull someone by the ears and his head will follow."
"Indian","Rather be a slave to a rich man than the spouse of a poor man."
"Indian","Regularity is the best medicine."
"Indian","The dog's tail stays crooked even if he is buried for twelve years."
"Indian","Patience is the most beautiful prayer."
"Indian","The truth is half a quarrel."
"Indian","The sandal tree perfumes the axe that fells it."
"Indian","The sieve says to the needle, ""You have a hole in your tail."""
"Indian","The soldier's wife is always a widow."
"Indian","The spouse of a woman is a man, the spouse of a man is his livelihood."
"Indian","The thief that is not caught is a king."
"Indian","The crow was killed by the storm -- ""He died by my curse,"" says the owl."
"Indian","The tree casts its shadow on everything, even upon the woodcutter."
"Indian","The pain is sometimes preferable to the treatment."
"Indian","The voice of the poor has no echo."
"Indian","The way to overcome the angry man is with gentleness, the evil man with goodness, the miser with generosity and the liar with truth."
"Indian","The weakest go to the wall."
"Indian","The word of a woman is a bundle of water."
"Indian","The world flatters the elephant and tramples on the ant."
"Indian","The worst kind of poverty is to have many debts."
"Indian","The tongue is safe; even among thirty teeth."
"Indian","The hot sun melts away the snow; when anger comes, does wisdom go."
"Indian","The dog's tail, even if buried for twelve years, will remain as crooked as ever."
"Indian","The enemy's own punishment is his envy."
"Indian","The eyes do not see what the mind does not want."
"Indian","The first day a guest, the second day a guest, the third day a calamity."
"Indian","The grown-up pays attention to what you are doing; the child sees beyond that."
"Indian","The hands of a lawyer are always in someone's pocket."
"Indian","The potter sleeps soundly, for no one would steal clay."
"Indian","The heart at rest sees a feast in everything."
"Indian","The poor looks for food and the rich man for appetite."
"Indian","The lawyer's pouch is a mouth of Hell."
"Indian","The man who has mounted an elephant will not fear the bark of a dog."
"Indian","The money you dream about will not pay your bills."
"Indian","The most beautiful things in the universe are the starry heavens above us and the feeling of duty within us."
"Indian","The nose didn't smell the rotting head."
"Indian","One man's house burns so that another may warm himself."
"Indian","The hare that escaped had eight legs."
"Indian","A cat in a cage becomes a lion."
"Indian","A guilty conscience is a hidden enemy."
"Indian","A good bark year makes a good wheat year."
"Indian","A foolish bride gets no presents."
"Indian","A fly, a harlot, a beggar, a rat, and gusty wind; the village-boss and the tax collector - these seven are always annoying to others."
"Indian","A fight in your neighbor's house is refreshing."
"Indian","A dog will not make himself look like a horse just by cutting off his tail."
"Indian","A dog always bites under the knee."
"Indian","A guilty conscience is a lively enemy."
"Indian","A coconut shell full of water is a sea to an ant."
"Indian","A book is like a garden in the pocket."
"Indian","A buffalo does not feel the weight of his own horns."
"Indian","A book is a good friend when it lays bare the errors of the past."
"Indian","After eating nine hundred rats, the cat is now going on a pilgrimage."
"Indian","A beggar himself, can he afford to have one asking for alms at his door?"
"Indian","A beautiful woman belongs to everyone; an ugly one is yours alone."
"Indian","A bandicoot is lovely to his parents; a mule is pretty to its mate."
"Indian","Turkeys, parrots, and hares don't know what gratitude is."
"Indian","A doctor is only a doctor when he has killed one or two patients."
"Indian","A spoiled son becomes a gambler, while a spoiled daughter becomes a harlot."
"Indian","A blind man sat behind a pile of stones and thought that nobody could see him."
"Indian","A harvest of peace grows from seeds of contentment."
"Indian","A viper without fangs is like a piece of rope."
"Indian","A thief is a thief, whether he steals a diamond or a cucumber."
"Indian","A rap on the ringed finger does not hurt."
"Indian","A person who misses a chance and the monkey who misses its branch -- both cannot be saved."
"Indian","A person consists of his faith. Whatever is his faith, even so is he."
"Indian","A pearl is worthless as long as it is still in its shell."
"Indian","A lie has no author, nor a liar a conscience."
"Indian","A house without children is a graveyard."
"Indian","A thief thinks everybody steals."
"Indian","A meal without flesh is like feeding on grass."
"Indian","A house without a woman is the devil's own lodging."
"Indian","A lawyer's fee and a harlot's wages are paid in advance."
"Indian","A lot of people become saints because of their stomach."
"Indian","A man laughs at others and weeps for himself."
"Indian","A man without a woman is only half a man."
"Indian","A man without money is like a bow without arrows."
"Indian","Large desire is endless poverty."
"Indian","You can often find in rivers what you cannot find in oceans."
"Indian","The weakest go to the wall."
"Indian","You can only lean against that which resists."
"Indian","The way to overcome the angry man is with gentleness, the evil man with goodness, the miser with generosity and the liar with truth."
"Indian","Sit on the bank of a river and wait: Your enemy's corpse will soon float by."
"Indian","September blow soft till the fruit's in the loft."
"Indian","Separation secures manifest friendship."
"Indian","Only mad dogs and Englishmen go out in the noonday sun."
"Indian","Life is not a continuum of pleasant choices, but of inevitable problems that call for strength, determination, and hard work."
"Indian","To the mediocre, mediocrity appears great."
"Indian","Agriculture is best, enterprise is acceptable, but avoid being on a fixed wage."
"Indian","Garlic is as good as ten mothers."
"Indian","A person who misses a chance and the monkey who misses its branch can't be saved."
"Indian","Anger ends in cruelty."
"Indian","Blaming your faults on your nature does not change the nature of your faults."
"Indian","Blaw the wind ne'er so fast, it will lower at last."
"Indian","Call on God, but row away from the rocks."
"Indian","Don't bargain for fish which are still in the water."
"Indian","Don't judge any man until you have walked two moons in his moccasins."
"Indian","Don't just cross a river--cross it bearing fire!."
"Indian","Fate and self-help share equally in shaping our destiny."
"Indian","You can never enter the same river twice."
"Indonesian","Do multiple tasks at one go."
"Indonesian","Death is the bride of life."
"Indonesian","Do two things at one go."
"Indonesian","Different people have different personality."
"Indonesian","Different men have different opinions -- some prefer apples, some onions."
"Indonesian","Diligence is the beginning of brilliance."
"Indonesian","Different fields, different grasshoppers; different seas, different fish."
"Indonesian","Different culture means different custom."
"Indonesian","Describe, usually with regret, something that has already happenned and is irreversible."
"Indonesian","Does not mix well together."
"Indonesian","If we do a lot of practice we can do a good job."
"Indonesian","Collaboration, sharing of burden irrespective of the weight."
"Indonesian","Different background means different thinking."
"Indonesian","Don't stay on the dew until the sun reaches its highest."
"Indonesian","Each is dependent on the other for their mutual survival."
"Indonesian","Even things that are far apart can meet as one."
"Indonesian","Every action has its consequences."
"Indonesian","Expecting something bigger, and we let go what we already have."
"Indonesian","Expense is bigger than income."
"Indonesian","Fighting a losing battle."
"Indonesian","If an eel is with fish, he shows his tail; if he is with snakes, he shows his head."
"Indonesian","If you are desperate, you must not be choosy."
"Indonesian","If you enter a goat stable, bleat; if you enter a water buffalo stable, bellow."
"Indonesian","If you go into a goat stable, bleat; if you go into a water buffalo stable, bellow."
"Indonesian","In a no-win situation where all the possible solutions present has terrible consequences."
"Indonesian","A mother's love is neverending."
"Indonesian","Goodness shouts. Evil whispers."
"Indonesian","A smart man is usually humble."
"Indonesian","A different way of thingking in every person."
"Indonesian","A dispute can only be resolved by discussing the problem openly and coolly."
"Indonesian","A fire will sear and the sun burn yet more, but neither can match the ardor of a man's heart."
"Indonesian","A good deed that is repaid by a bad deed."
"Indonesian","A junior will always do what the senior does."
"Indonesian","A long dispute has been forgoten by love, or sometimes a long time of goodness has been forgotten by one badness."
"Indonesian","A man finds what he takes to be small; it will only be big again when he loses it."
"Indonesian","A moth will eat the finest linen."
"Indonesian","Rippling water shows lack of depth."
"Indonesian","A person who is extremely cautious in doing something."
"Indonesian","In a very critical situation as the egg will soon tip-over and fall."
"Indonesian","A person who loves about their mother is doing the best deed."
"Indonesian","A person who wish for something impossible."
"Indonesian","Changing priorities."
"Indonesian","All the bad things seems to happen at the same time."
"Indonesian","An egoistic person can't realize his own mistakes, but can always find mistakes of others."
"Indonesian","Asking question is the only way to learn."
"Indonesian","Be careful of what you say as it can hurt more than a knife."
"Indonesian","Be dilligent in learning."
"Indonesian","Beautiful day, a gift for the traveller."
"Indonesian","Before you let your voice be heard, first lick your lips."
"Indonesian","Better something than nothing."
"Indonesian","Beware, the enemy lies under your blanket."
"Indonesian","Blaming the wrong reason. Looking for a scapegoat."
"Indonesian","Blaming the wrong reason/cause or creating a scapegoat."
"Indonesian","Calm water does not mean there are no crocodiles."
"Indonesian","A person who talks a lot usually is empty inside."
"Indonesian","To get something one silently wishes for."
"Indonesian","The shallower the brook, the more it babbles."
"Indonesian","There are hidden purposes behind an act."
"Indonesian","There are not many who would announce their faults with a gong."
"Indonesian","There is always someone who loves you, and someone who hates you."
"Indonesian","There is no point of nurturing an anger inside us. Just let it go."
"Indonesian","There will be a replacement for everything."
"Indonesian","There's a cause of everything."
"Indonesian","They are flies that are born of a wasp."
"Indonesian","Think everything carefully before committing yourself because there is no point for regretting it later."
"Indonesian","This proverb is often used to illustrate a person who does not have enough resources to accomplish his goal."
"Indonesian","To be a smart man you need to be humble."
"Indonesian","People tend to be attracted to what most benefits them."
"Indonesian","To describe a unity of a society."
"Indonesian","The laughter of someone pining for his beloved is like that of someone who is always crying."
"Indonesian","Together in good and bad times."
"Indonesian","Two things that never get along."
"Indonesian","Useless protest, critic, or sarcasm."
"Indonesian","We are never satisfied with our posessions."
"Indonesian","We have to fight for our freedom as long as it takes, and we shall not mind the death following our struggle for independence."
"Indonesian","We only call our friends if we need help, and we don't help our friends in need."
"Indonesian","When a durian tree is already ripe and sweet, many of the durians will fall to the ground."
"Indonesian","When prominent persons fights, commoners would suffer."
"Indonesian","When you begin to understand the situation, you know you must have been ill-informed."
"Indonesian","Where's no top dogs, underdogs will be seen as one."
"Indonesian","Wherever we live, we must observe the local custom."
"Indonesian","To describe a person who has just gotten out from a precarious situation just to get into another precarious situation."
"Indonesian","Once you lost the trust of someone, it is almost impossible to gain it back."
"Indonesian","Live a good and useful life."
"Indonesian","Never take for granted a quiet person, for he may have qualities that belie his quiet nature."
"Indonesian","Never underestimate a quiet person, for he may have qualities that belie his quiet nature."
"Indonesian","No experience, narrow minded."
"Indonesian","No matter how smart a person is, eventually he will make a mistake."
"Indonesian","No matter how stressed or angry we are, we have to solve a problem with rationale."
"Indonesian","No matter how successful a person is, he will experience some bad things too."
"Indonesian","No pain no gain."
"Indonesian","Nothing is difficult if you're used to it."
"Indonesian","Nothing is difficult when you get used to it."
"Indonesian","Nothing is perfect in this world."
"Indonesian","The sea becomes the shore, the shore becomes the sea."
"Indonesian","Once the rice is pudding, it's too late to reclaim the rice."
"Indonesian","The name of Love's fianc6e is Divorce."
"Indonesian","one ill behaviour may cause others to forget the kindness we've done."
"Indonesian","People seek out big shots as flies seek out the elephant's tail."
"Indonesian","A change of event such as the death of a leader, will lead to other changes."
"Indonesian","People with much ado usually don't know shallow."
"Indonesian","The opposite of It's A Small World."
"Indonesian","Someone who doesn't want to be responsible for his doing."
"Indonesian","Someone who expect to become someone that beyond him."
"Indonesian","Someone who wish something impossible."
"Indonesian","Someone will be remembered by his accolades."
"Indonesian","Taking advantage of a murky/confusing situation."
"Indonesian","The firm tree does not fear the storm."
"Indonesian","Like the seaweed that clings to each other after each passing boat separates them, so too a family will come together with the passing of each crisis."
"Indonesian","Older but instead of getting wiser, one gets naughtier."
"Indonesian","The shadow should be the same length as the body."
"Indonesian","The shallower the brook, the more it babbles."
"Indonesian","Different fields, different grasshoppers; different seas, different fish."
"Indonesian","Different men have different opinions; Some like apples, some onions."
"Indonesian","If you enter a goat stable, bleat; if you enter a water buffalo stable, bellow."
"Indonesian","Rippling water shows lack of depth."
"Indonesian","The shadow should be the same length as the body."
"Iowa","A brave dies but once - a coward many times."
"Iranian","The loveliest of faces are to be seen by moonlight, when one sees half with the eye and half with the fancy."
"Iranian","Experience is a comb which nature gives to men when they are bald."
"Iranian","Habits are first cobwebs, then cables."
"Iranian","One pound of learning requires ten pounds of common sense to apply it."
"Iranian","Solved riddles look easy."
"Iranian","You can close the city gates, but you can't close the people's mouths. It's better to flee and stay alive than to die and become a hero. A timely tear is better than a misplaced smile."
"Iranian","The arrow that has left the bow never returns."
"Iranian","Drawn wells have sweetest water."
"Iranian","The night hides a world, but reveals a universe."
"Iranian","The sky is of the same color wherever you go."
"Iranian","The way a house is decorated will tell much about its owner. Don't just take love -- experience it."
"Iranian","What is brought by the wind will be carried away by the wind."
"Iranian","When the cat and mouse agree, the grocer is ruined."
"Iranian","Stretch your foot to the length of your blanket."
"Iranian","As the best wine makes the sharpest vinegar, the truest lover may turn into the worst enemy."
"Iranian","A blind person who sees is better than a seeing person who is blind."
"Iranian","A drowning man is not troubled by rain."
"Iranian","A gentle hand may lead even an elephant by a hair."
"Iranian","A man can pose as a wise when searching for wisdom, but if he believes to have find it, is a fool."
"Iranian","A stone thrown at the right time is better than gold given at the wrong time."
"Iranian","Every man is the king of his own beard."
"Iranian","An egg thief becomes a camel thief."
"Iranian","Epigrams succeed where epics fail."
"Iranian","Do not choose for anyone what you do not choose for yourself."
"Iranian","Doubt is the key to knowledge."
"Iranian","Doubt makes the mountain which faith can move."
"Iranian","Doubtful the die, and dire the cast."
"Iranian","Draw not thy bow before thy arrow be fixed."
"Iranian","Only a heart can find the way to another heart. A wise man can laugh at his jokes."
"Iranian","A sword in the hands of a drunken slave is less dangerous than science in the hands of the immoral."
"Iranian","Necessity can change a lion into a fox."
"Iranian","Doubt makes the mountain which faith can move."
"Iranian","Draw not thy bow before thy arrow be fixed."
"Iranian","Doubtful the die, and dire the cast!"
"Iranian","A blind person who sees is better than a seeing person who is blind."
"Iranian","Drawn wells have sweetest water."
"Iranian","Doubt is the key to knowledge."
"Iranian","A gentle hand may lead even an elephant by a hair."
"Iraqi","An army of sheep led by a lion would defeat an army of lions led by a sheep."
"Iraqi","All authors should prepare to encounter criticism."
"Iraqi","A book is like a garden carried in the pocket."
"Iraqi","If you conduct yourself properly, then fear no one."
"Iraqi","Sometimes you need to sacrifice your beard in order to save your head."
"Iraqi","You will discover your true friends in moments of crisis."
"Irish","It is not a fish until it is on the bank."
"Irish","It is no time to go for the doctor when the patient is dead."
"Irish","Every invalid is a doctor."
"Irish","It is better to be a coward for a minute than dead the rest of your life."
"Irish","You've got to do your own growing, no matter how tall your grandfather was."
"Irish","When the hand ceases to scatter, the heart ceases to pray."
"Irish","A quarrel is like buttermilk: once it's out of the churn, the more you shake it, the more sour it grows."
"Irish","Reverence ceases once blood is split."
"Irish","Reputations last longer than lives."
"Irish","Remember even if you loose all, keep your good name for if you loose that you are worthless."
"Irish","Red sky at night is a shepherds delight, red sky in the morning is a shepherds warning."
"Irish","Rarely is a fight continued when the chief has fallen."
"Irish","Quiet people are well able to look after themselves."
"Irish","Putting the fox to mind the geese."
"Irish","Say but little, and say it well."
"Irish","Put silk on a goat, and it's still a goat."
"Irish","Sending the goose on a message to the fox's den."
"Irish","Put silk on a goat, and it is still a goat."
"Irish","Put the priest in the middle of the parish."
"Irish","Say little, but say it well."
"Irish","The longest road out is the shortest road home."
"Irish","See not what you see and hear not what you hear."
"Irish","Possession is nine-tenths of the law."
"Irish","Sense doesn't come before age."
"Irish","Shame is ever a part of poverty."
"Irish","She wipes the plate with the cat's tail."
"Irish","She would drink the cream and say the cat she had was an old rogue."
"Irish","Show the fatted calf but not the thing that fattened him."
"Irish","Sleep is better than medicine."
"Irish","Snuff at a wake is fine if there's nobody sneezing over the snuff box."
"Irish","Soft words butter no parsnips, but they won't harden the heart of the cabbage either."
"Irish","Soft words butter no turnips."
"Irish","Scattering is easier than gathering."
"Irish","Praise the young and they will make progress."
"Irish","Put it on your shoulder and say it is not a burden."
"Irish","Put a coward to his metal an' he'll fight the de'il."
"Irish","Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride to hell."
"Irish","Pulling the devil by the leg is a bad grip."
"Irish","Proverbs cannot be contradicted."
"Irish","Pride feels no pain."
"Irish","Pride comes before a fall."
"Irish","The best looking-glass is the eyes of a friend."
"Irish","Praise youth and it will prosper."
"Irish","Some prefer carrot while others like cabbage."
"Irish","Praise without profit puts little in the pocket."
"Irish","Poor men take to the sea, the rich to the mountains."
"Irish","Praise the youth and they will come."
"Irish","Pity the man who has a stranger's spancel on him."
"Irish","Praise the young and they will make progress."
"Irish","Praise the sea but keep near land."
"Irish","Praise the ripe field, not the green corn."
"Irish","Praise the ford when you have crossed it."
"Irish","Poverty parts good company."
"Irish","Poverty is no shame."
"Irish","Poverty creates sadness."
"Irish","Postpone not a good action."
"Irish","Possession satisfies."
"Irish","Poor men take to the sea; the rich to the mountains."
"Irish","Poor is the church without music."
"Irish","Praise undeserved is satire in disguise."
"Irish","The full person can not understand the needs of the hungry."
"Irish","The beginning of health is sleep."
"Irish","The day will come when the cow will have use for her tail."
"Irish","The devil never grants long leases."
"Irish","The dog that's always on the go, is better than the one that's always curled up."
"Irish","The doorstep of a great house is slippery."
"Irish","The early bird catches the worm."
"Irish","The early riser gets through his business but not through early rising."
"Irish","The end of a feast is better than the beginning of a fight."
"Irish","The English always credit the rest of us with the qualities they don't need themselves."
"Irish","The eye should be blind in the home of another."
"Irish","The fewer donkeys, the more corncobs."
"Irish","The day of the storm is not the time for thatching your roof."
"Irish","The full man does not understand the wants of the hungry."
"Irish","The covetous person is always in want."
"Irish","The full person does not understand the needs of the hungry."
"Irish","The full stomach does not understand the empty one."
"Irish","The grace of God is found between the saddle and the ground."
"Irish","The hand goes only where the leg goes."
"Irish","The heavier the purse, the lighter the heart."
"Irish","The herb that can't be got is the one that heals."
"Irish","The hole is more honorable than the patch."
"Irish","The horse with the most scars is the one that highest kicks his rear."
"Irish","The Irish forgive their great men when they are safely buried."
"Irish","The light heart lives long."
"Irish","The longest road has an end and the straightest road has an end."
"Irish","The fox never found a better messenger than himself."
"Irish","That which is nearest a woman's heart is the first to come out."
"Irish","Speak to the devil and you'll hear the clatter of his hooves."
"Irish","Speed and accuracy do not agree."
"Irish","Spread your cloth only as you can draw it."
"Irish","Strength is not enduring."
"Irish","Strife is better than loneliness."
"Irish","Sweet is the voice of the man who has wealth."
"Irish","Sweet is the wine but sour is the payment."
"Irish","Take gifts with a sigh because most men give in order to be paid."
"Irish","Take gifts with a sigh most men give to be paid."
"Irish","Take gifts with a sigh; most men give to be paid."
"Irish","Take heed is a good reed."
"Irish","The day of the storm is not the time for thatching your roof."
"Irish","Tell the truth and shame the devil."
"Irish","Sow early and mow early."
"Irish","That's a spoon ye'll sup sorrow with yet."
"Irish","The apple falls on the head that's under it."
"Irish","The beginning and end of one's life is to draw closer to the fire."
"Irish","Pity him who makes his opinions a certainty."
"Irish","The best horse doesn't always win the race."
"Irish","People live in each other's shelter."
"Irish","The best way to keep loyalty in a man's heart is to keep money in his purse."
"Irish","The bird that can sing and won't sing should be made to sing."
"Irish","The blacksmith's horse and the cobbler's wife are always the last to have shoes."
"Irish","The cat has leave to look at the queen and the queen has leave to shoot it."
"Irish","The cat is always dignified, until the dog comes by."
"Irish","Talk doesn't fill the stomach."
"Irish","He who lives with hope dies happy."
"Irish","If there is a way into the wood there is also a way out of it."
"Irish","Hills far away are green but they often have sour bottoms."
"Irish","Help is always welcome, except at the table."
"Irish","He's more to be pitied than laughed at."
"Irish","He'd offer you an egg if you promised not to break the shell."
"Irish","He who spies is the one who kills."
"Irish","His face would hang him."
"Irish","He who only drinks water does not get drunk."
"Irish","His own wound is what everyone feels soonest."
"Irish","He who is best for me is he who shall get the best share."
"Irish","He who has cattle on the hill will not sleep easy."
"Irish","He who has a good neighbor has a good friend."
"Irish","He who gets a name for early rising can stay in bed until midday."
"Irish","He who falls today. may rise tomorrow."
"Irish","He who doesn't look ahead remains behind.."
"Irish","He who comes with a story to you brings two away from you."
"Irish","He who pays the piper calls the tune."
"Irish","If a rogue deceives me once, shame on him. If he deceives me twice, shame on me."
"Irish","Pity the man who does wrong and is poor as well."
"Irish","If the knitter is weary, the baby will have no new bonnet."
"Irish","If the cat sits long enough at the hole, she will catch the mouse."
"Irish","If one sheep puts his head through the gap the rest will follow."
"Irish","If it's got badly, it'll go badly."
"Irish","If it's a secret, it's binding."
"Irish","His eyes are like two burnt holes in a blanket."
"Irish","If God sends you down a stony path, may he give you strong shoes."
"Irish","He thinks that he himself is the very stone that was hurled at the castle."
"Irish","If a man fools me once, shame on him; if he fools me twice, shame on me."
"Irish","If a cat had a dowry, she would often be kissed."
"Irish","Idleness is a fool's desire."
"Irish","I'll go there tonight for evening is speedier than morning."
"Irish","I would rather have a clever woman than a rich one."
"Irish","Humor to a man is like a feather pillow. It is filled with what is easy to get but gives great comfort."
"Irish","Hope is the physician of each misery."
"Irish","If God shuts one door, He opens another."
"Irish","Give away all you like, but keep your bills and your temper."
"Irish","Good care takes the head off bad luck."
"Irish","Good as drink is, it ends in thirst."
"Irish","Going in is not the same as going out."
"Irish","God's help is nearer than the door."
"Irish","God often pays debts without money."
"Irish","God likes help when helping people."
"Irish","He who can follow his own will is a king."
"Irish","Go to a man who is in difficulty and you'll get a bargain."
"Irish","Good sense is as important as food."
"Irish","Get down on your knees and thank God you're still on your feet."
"Irish","G od is good, but never dance in a small boat."
"Irish","From the king to the beggar, they all depend on the farm."
"Irish","Friends are like fiddle-strings and they must not be screwed too tightly."
"Irish","Forgetting a debt does not pay it."
"Irish","For what cannot be cured, patience is best."
"Irish","Food is no more important than wisdom, The beginning of wisdom is the fear of God."
"Irish","God fits the back for the burden."
"Irish","Handle the pudding while it's hot."
"Irish","If two neighbors want to fight, they will find a quarrel in a straw."
"Irish","He may die of wind but he'll never die of wisdom."
"Irish","He knows the price of everything and the value of nothing."
"Irish","He knows how many grains to a bushel of wheat."
"Irish","He is bad that will not take advice, but he is a thousand times worse that takes every advice."
"Irish","He got it from nature as the pig got the rooting in the ground."
"Irish","He dotes on his midden and thinks it the moon."
"Irish","Good luck beats early rising."
"Irish","Have it yourself, or else do without it."
"Irish","Good luck comes in slender currents, misfortune in a rolling tides."
"Irish","Handfuls make a load."
"Irish","Half a loaf is better than no bread."
"Irish","Half a leap falls into the ditch."
"Irish","Great talk and little action."
"Irish","Great mansions have slippery doors."
"Irish","Great hate follows great love."
"Irish","He was never good since the time a yard made a coat for him."
"Irish","He couldn't drag a herring off the coals."
"Irish","It is not a fish until it is on the bank."
"Irish","If the potato misses, ireland's beaten."
"Irish","One beetle recognizes another."
"Irish","One beetle recognises another."
"Irish","Often have the likely failed and the unlikely prospered."
"Irish","Often a cow does not take after its breed."
"Irish","It is not a sin to sell dear, but it is to make ill measure."
"Irish","One look ahead is better than two looks behind."
"Irish","It is not a matter of upper and lower class but of ups and downs."
"Irish","One man's meat is another man's poison."
"Irish","It is no time to go for the doctor when the patient is dead."
"Irish","It is no shame to tell the truth."
"Irish","It is no secret that is known to three."
"Irish","It is in the shelter of each other that the people live."
"Irish","It is hard to hunt the hare out of the bush it is not in."
"Irish","It is hard for an empty bag to stand itself alone."
"Irish","It is easy to halve the potato where there is love."
"Irish","It is not a secret if it is known by three people."
"Irish","Pains and patience would take a snail to america."
"Irish","Peace is worth buying."
"Irish","Patience is a virtue that causes no shame."
"Irish","Patience is a poultice for all wounds."
"Irish","Patience is a plaster for all sores."
"Irish","Patience cures many an old complaint."
"Irish","Patience conquers destiny."
"Irish","One eye in the corner is sharper than two about the house."
"Irish","Patience and forbearance make a bishop of his reverence."
"Irish","It is difficult to soothe the proud."
"Irish","Only those who were born to hang are not afraid of the water."
"Irish","Only the rich can afford compassion."
"Irish","Only a fool would prefer food to a woman."
"Irish","One woman understands another."
"Irish","One woman understands another."
"Irish","One pair of good soles is worth two pairs of upper leathers."
"Irish","One may live without one's friends but not without one's pipe."
"Irish","Patience can conquer destiny."
"Irish","If you go to court leave your soul at home."
"Irish","If you put a silk dress on a goat, he is a goat still."
"Irish","If you meet a red-haired woman, you'll meet a crowd."
"Irish","If you live in my heart, you live rent free."
"Irish","If you lie down with dogs you'll rise with fleas."
"Irish","If you lend your coat, don't cut off the buttons."
"Irish","If you have to swallow a frog, try not to think about it. If you have to swallow two frogs, don't swallow the smaller one first."
"Irish","It is easy to drive with your own whip and another's horse."
"Irish","If you have a roving eye, it's no use having the other one fixed on Heaven."
"Irish","If you want to be criticized, marry."
"Irish","If you get a reputation as an early riser, you can sleep till noon."
"Irish","If you don't want flour, do not get into the mill."
"Irish","If you don't want flour on your shoes, don't go into the mill."
"Irish","If you don't know the way, walk slowly."
"Irish","If you do not sow in the spring you will not reap in the autumn."
"Irish","If you dig a grave for others, you might fall into it yourself."
"Irish","If you come up in this world, be sure not to go down in the next."
"Irish","If you have one pair of good soles it is better than two pairs of good uppers."
"Irish","It is a hard task to comfort the proud."
"Irish","The pig in the sty doesn't know the pig going along the road."
"Irish","It is better to have part of a man than no man at all."
"Irish","It is better to exist unknown to the law."
"Irish","It is better to be born lucky than rich."
"Irish","It is better to be a coward for a minute than dead for the rest of your life."
"Irish","Youth sheds many a skin. The steed does not retain its speed forever."
"Irish","It is a long road that has no turning."
"Irish","If you put a silk suit on a goat it is still a goat."
"Irish","It is a lonely washing that has no man's shirt in it."
"Irish","If you want an audience start a fight."
"Irish","It is a bad hen that does not scratch herself."
"Irish","It is a bad hen can't scrape for herself."
"Irish","It destroys the craft not to learn it."
"Irish","Irishwomen have a dispensation from the pope to wear the thick ends of their legs downwards."
"Irish","Instinct is stronger than upbringing."
"Irish","In winter the milk goes to the cow's horns."
"Irish","It is easier to demolish a house than to build one."
"Irish","Youth will have its fling."
"Irish","There are as many good fish in the sea as ever came out of it."
"Irish","The waiting man thinks the time long."
"Irish","The wearer best knows where the shoe pinches."
"Irish","The well fed does not understand the lean."
"Irish","The well fed person doesn't understand the hungry one."
"Irish","The well-fed does not understand the lean."
"Irish","The well-filled belly has little understanding of the empty."
"Irish","The windy day is not a day for scallops [thatching]."
"Irish","The wine is sweet, the paying bitter."
"Irish","The wise bird flies lowest."
"Irish","The wood will renew the foliage it sheds."
"Irish","The work praises the man."
"Irish","The world would not make a racehorse of a donkey."
"Irish","The world's quiet and the pig is in the sty."
"Irish","There is no fireside like your own fireside"
"Irish","There is a crock of gold in the tomb of every chieftain, but they are all guarded by cats and fairies."
"Irish","The person who brings a story to you will take away two from you."
"Irish","The silent mouth is golden."
"Irish","There is never an old brogue but there is a foot to fit it."
"Irish","There is more friendship in a half pint of whiskey than in a churn of buttermilk."
"Irish","There is misfortune only where there is wealth."
"Irish","The young shed many skins."
"Irish","There is hope from the sea but there is no hope from the land."
"Irish","The youngest thorns are the sharpest."
"Irish","There are two tellings to every story."
"Irish","There are three creatures beyond ruling - a mule, a pig and a woman."
"Irish","There are many ways of killing a pig other than by choking it with butter."
"Irish","There are fish in the sea better than have ever been caught."
"Irish","There are finer fish in the sea than have ever been caught."
"Irish","The three most beautiful sights: a potato garden in bloom, a ship under sail, and a woman after the birth of a child."
"Irish","There is light at the end of the tunnel."
"Irish","Two thirds of help is to give courage."
"Irish","The tree remains, but not so the hand that put it."
"Irish","The shortcut to food but the long way to work."
"Irish","The silent are often guilty."
"Irish","Twenty years a child; twenty years running wild; twenty years a mature man -- and after that, praying."
"Irish","Two shorten the road."
"Irish","The seeking for one thing will find another."
"Irish","Two things that go for loss-turf on a mountain and the wisdom of a poor man."
"Irish","The secret of an old woman scolding."
"Irish","Two thirds of the work is the semblance."
"Irish","Two to one is odds."
"Irish","Two-thirds of help is to give courage."
"Irish","Walk straight, my son - as the old crab said to the young crab."
"Irish","Watching is a part of good play."
"Irish","We have a fine day more often than a kiln-cast."
"Irish","Two Sir Positives can scarce meet without a skirmish."
"Irish","The stars make no noise."
"Irish","There is no fool who has not his own kind of sense."
"Irish","The three faults of drinking are: a sorrowful morning, a dirty coat, and an empty pocket."
"Irish","The thief is sorry he is to be hanged, not that he is a thief."
"Irish","The thief is no danger to the beggar."
"Irish","The sweat of one's brow is what burns everyone."
"Irish","The shoemaker's wife and the blacksmith's horse often go unshod."
"Irish","The steed does not retain its speed forever."
"Irish","The tongue ties knots that the teeth cannot loosen."
"Irish","The smallest thing outlives the human being."
"Irish","The smaller the cabin the wider the door."
"Irish","The slow hound often has good qualities."
"Irish","The slow horse reaches the mill."
"Irish","The road to hell is paved with good intentions."
"Irish","The seagull thinks it is an act of kindness to give the fish a lift in the air."
"Irish","The sty before the litter."
"Irish","To a man prepared for war, peace is assured."
"Irish","Thirst is the end of drinking and sorrow is the end of drunkenness."
"Irish","This is better than the thing we never had."
"Irish","Those who get the name of rising early may lie all day."
"Irish","Those who play the game do not see it as clearly as those who watch."
"Irish","Though honey is sweet, do not lick it off a briar."
"Irish","Though the proverb is abandoned, it is not falsified."
"Irish","Though wisdom is good in the beginning it is better at the end."
"Irish","Three diseases without shame: love, itch, and thirst."
"Irish","Three people can keep a secret, if two of them are dead."
"Irish","Three things that can't be taught: generosity, poetry and a singing voice."
"Irish","Three things you cannot comprehend: the mind of a woman, the working of the bees, and the ebb and flow of the tide."
"Irish","Time and Patience would bring the snail to Jerusalem."
"Irish","Time is a good story teller."
"Irish","There is no feast till a roast and no torment till a marriage."
"Irish","Treachery returns."
"Irish","Truth stands when everything else falls."
"Irish","Truth speaks even though the tongue were dead."
"Irish","Trust not a spiteful man."
"Irish","Trust me, but look to thyself."
"Irish","True strength lies in gentleness."
"Irish","Time is a good story-teller."
"Irish","Trouble hates nothing as much as a smile."
"Irish","Time is a great story teller."
"Irish","To the raven her own chick is white."
"Irish","To the fighting man peace is sure."
"Irish","To put off repentance is dangerous."
"Irish","To every cow its calf; to every book its copy."
"Irish","To be red-haired is better than to be without a head."
"Irish","There's no sore ass like your own sore ass."
"Irish","True friendship is like one soul living in two bodies.-."
"Irish","There is no thing wickeder than a woman of evil temper."
"Irish","There's trouble in every house and some in he street."
"Irish","There is nothing sharper than a woman's tongue."
"Irish","There is nothing in the world so poor as going to hell."
"Irish","There is not strength without unity."
"Irish","There is not a tree in Heaven that is higher than the tree of patience."
"Irish","There never was a scabby sheep in a flock that didn't like to have a comrade."
"Irish","There is no use in carrying an umbrella if your shoes are leaking."
"Irish","There never was an old slipper but there was an old stocking to match it."
"Irish","There is no strength without unity."
"Irish","There is no smoke without fire."
"Irish","There is no place like home."
"Irish","There is no pain greater than the pain of rejection."
"Irish","There is no need like the lack of a friend."
"Irish","There is no luck except where there is discipline."
"Irish","There is no virtue in the herb that is not got in time."
"Irish","There's many a good tune played on an old fiddle."
"Irish","What butter and whiskey will not cure there's no cure for."
"Irish","There's no need to fear the wind if your haystacks are tied down."
"Irish","There's no hearthstone like your own hearthstone."
"Irish","There's no hearth like your own hearth."
"Irish","There's never a wise man without fault."
"Irish","There is pain in prohibition."
"Irish","There's many a ship lost within sight of harbour."
"Irish","There's no wise man without a fault."
"Irish","There's little value in the single cow."
"Irish","There's little to choose between two blind goats."
"Irish","There's as many good horses in carts as in coaches."
"Irish","There's a fool born every minute - and every one of them lives."
"Irish","There'll be white blackbirds before an unwilling woman ties the knot."
"Irish","There was never a scabby sheep in a flock that didn't like to have a comrade."
"Irish","There's neither success nor efficiency without authority and laws."
"Irish","You kissed the blarney stone."
"Irish","Your pocket is your friend."
"Irish","Your own deeds will long be baptized on you."
"Irish","Your lord's rent or your child's life."
"Irish","You've got to do your own growing, not matter how tall your grandfather was."
"Irish","You're not as young as you used to be, but you're not as old as you're going to be."
"Irish","You'll not find a thrush in a hawk's nest."
"Irish","You'll never plow a field by turning it over in your mind."
"Irish","You will never plough a field by turning it over in your mind."
"Irish","You will find enough of brushna in every wood to burn it."
"Irish","You should never stop the plough to kill a mouse."
"Irish","You never miss the water till the well has run dry."
"Irish","You must live with a person to know a person. If you want to know me come and live with me."
"Irish","You must empty a box before you fill it again."
"Irish","We were born to die anyhow."
"Irish","You can't teach an old dog new tricks."
"Irish","Women in state affairs are like monkeys in glass-houses."
"Irish","You are not a fully fledged sailor unless you have sailed under full sail, and you have not built a wall unless you have rounded a corner."
"Irish","You can keep away from the rogue, but you cannot keep yourself safe from the liar."
"Irish","You can kill a dog more way than by choking it with butter."
"Irish","You can take a man out of the bog, but you can't take the bog out of the man."
"Irish","You must cut your coat according to your cloth."
"Irish","You can't put a wide head on young shoulders."
"Irish","You must crack the nuts before you can eat the kernel."
"Irish","You cannot make a silk purse out of a sow's ear."
"Irish","You cannot sup soup with a fork."
"Irish","You cannot tell from a man's clothes how much he is making, but you must look at his wife's."
"Irish","You couldn't make half a football team out of all the Leinster men in Heaven."
"Irish","You didn't turn up when sense was being distributed."
"Irish","Youth has a small head."
"Irish","You can't build a barrel round a bung hole."
"Irish","The mills of God grind slowly, but they grind finely."
"Irish","Your son is your son until he marries, but your daughter is your daughter until you die."
"Irish","The old pipe gives the sweetest smoke."
"Irish","The nest is enough for a wren."
"Irish","The nearer the church, the further from god."
"Irish","The morning of the race is not the morning to feed your horse."
"Irish","The one who waits the fine day, will get the fine day."
"Irish","The mills of the gods grind slowly but they grind finely."
"Irish","The only cure for love is marriage."
"Irish","The miller's pigs are fat but it wasn't all mouter they ate."
"Irish","The mill cannot grind with the water that is past."
"Irish","The mason who strikes often is better than the one who strikes too hard."
"Irish","The man with the boots does not mind where he places his foot."
"Irish","The man who was dividing Ireland didn't leave himself last."
"Irish","The man of courage never lost it."
"Irish","The money-maker is never tired."
"Irish","The quiet pigs eat all the draff."
"Irish","Women are shy and shame prevents them from refusing a man."
"Irish","Youth is wasted on the young."
"Irish","Youth likes to wander."
"Irish","The road to Heaven is well signposted, but it is badly lit at night."
"Irish","The right time to dine is: for the rich man, when he is hungry; and for the poor, when he has something to eat."
"Irish","The older the fiddle, the sweeter the tune."
"Irish","The rabbit gets fat on what the hare misses."
"Irish","Youth does not mind where it sets its foot."
"Irish","The proverb cannot be bettered."
"Irish","The pride of women and the pride of priests."
"Irish","The Power fellow will have another day."
"Irish","TThe best way to keep loyalty in a man's heart is to keep money in his purse."
"Irish","The person who doesn't scatter the morning dew will not comb gray hairs."
"Irish","The person of the greatest talk is the person of the least work."
"Irish","The raggy colt often made a powerful horse."
"Irish","When death comes, it will not go away empty."
"Irish","When the fruit is scarcest, its taste is sweetest."
"Irish","What's got badly, goes badly."
"Irish","When a heifer is far from home she grows longer horns."
"Irish","When a man gets his feet in lime he cannot easily get rid of it."
"Irish","When a twig grows hard it is difficult to twist it. Every beginning is weak."
"Irish","What's all the world to a man when his wife is a widow."
"Irish","When all things spoke the potato said, 'set me warm, dig me warm, eat me warm, that's all i want.'"
"Irish","What would you expect from an ass but a kick?"
"Irish","When everybody's house is on fire go home and look at your own chimney."
"Irish","When fire is applied to a stone it cracks."
"Irish","When the apple is ripe, it will fall."
"Irish","When the cat is out the mouse can dance."
"Irish","When the drink is in, the sense is out."
"Irish","Women do not drink liquor, but it disappears when they are present."
"Irish","When all fruits fail welcome haws."
"Irish","What is the world to a man when his wife is a widow."
"Irish","The longest way around is the shortest way home."
"Irish","What butter or whiskey will not cure is incurable."
"Irish","What fills the eye fills the heart."
"Irish","What I'm afraid to hear I'd better say first myself."
"Irish","What is in the marrow is hard to take out of the bone."
"Irish","What's good for the goose is good for the gander."
"Irish","What is seldom is wonderful."
"Irish","When the goat goes to church, he does not stop till he gets to the altar."
"Irish","What the child sees, the child does. What the child does, the child is."
"Irish","What whiskey will not cure, there is no cure for."
"Irish","What will come from the briar but the berry."
"Irish","What won't choke will fatten and clean dirt is no poison."
"Irish","What would a young cat do but eat mice?."
"Irish","What would shame him would turn back a funeral."
"Irish","What is nearest the heart is nearest the mouth."
"Irish","Wine divulges truth."
"Irish","When the drop is inside, the sense is outside."
"Irish","Whoever the cap fits, takes it."
"Irish","Willful waste makes woeful want."
"Irish","It is a lonesome washing without a man's shirt in it."
"Irish","Willows are weak but they bind other wood."
"Irish","While young, it's all dreams; when old, all memories."
"Irish","Wind from the east is good for neither man nor beast."
"Irish","Wherever there are women there's talking, and wherever there's geese there's cackling."
"Irish","Winter comes fast on the lazy."
"Irish","Wisdom is a comb given to a man once he is bald."
"Irish","Wisdom is what makes a poor man a king, a weak person powerful, a good generation of a bad one, a foolish man reasonable."
"Irish","Without pressing too little or too hard, hold tight the reins for he's a fool who would not get value from a borrowed horse."
"Irish","Woe to the man that entrusts his secrets to a ditch."
"Irish","We'll never know the worth of water till the well go dry."
"Irish","Firelight will not let you read fine stories, but it's warm and won't let you see the dust on the floor."
"Irish","When wrathful words arise a closed mouth is soothing."
"Irish","When the hand ceases to scatter, the heart ceases to pray."
"Irish","When the hand is clean, It needs no screen."
"Irish","When the liquor was gone the fun was gone."
"Irish","When the old woman is hard pressed, she has to run."
"Irish","When the river sounds, it's because it carries water."
"Irish","Whiskey when you're sick makes you well; whiskey makes you sick when you're well."
"Irish","When the sky falls we'll catch larks."
"Irish","Women are stronger than men, they do not die of wisdom."
"Irish","When you are right no one remembers; when you are wrong no one forgets."
"Irish","When you see a goat you should always hit him, because he is either going into mischief or coming out of it."
"Irish","When you're not fishing be mending the nets."
"Irish","When your hand is in the dog's mouth, withdraw it gently."
"Irish","Where comes a cow the wiseman lay down, there follows a woman, and where comes a woman follows trouble."
"Irish","Where the tongue slips, it speaks the truth."
"Irish","When the sky falls we'll all catch larks."
"Irish","Nobody ever bought peace but the man who hadn't got it."
"Irish","Money swore an oath that nobody that did not love it should ever have it."
"Irish","No dealing with a revengeful man."
"Irish","No forcing the sea."
"Irish","No matter how often a pitcher goes to the water it is broken in the end."
"Irish","No matter how tall your grandfather was, you have to do your own growing."
"Irish","No matter who comes off well, the peacemaker is sure to come off ill."
"Irish","No matter who succeeds or fails, the peacemaker will always suffer."
"Irish","No rearing, no manners."
"Irish","No stopping the force of a going wheel by hand."
"Irish","No time for your health today, will result in no health for your time tomorrow."
"Irish","No tree but has rotten wood enough to burn it."
"Irish","Never speak to the feet while the head is alive."
"Irish","No-one is ever poor who has the sight of his eyes and the use of his feet."
"Irish","Never sleep with a stranger or borrow from a neighbour."
"Irish","Nodding the head does not row the boat."
"Irish","Noiseless is the approach of the avenging deities."
"Irish","Not even an angel can fulfill two missions at once."
"Irish","Of small account is a fly till it gets into the eye."
"Irish","'every man to his fancy, and me to my own fancy,' said the old woman when she kissed her cow."
"Irish","'i see,' said the blind man when he was directed on his way."
"Irish","'my belly thinks my throat is cut,' as the hungry man said."
"Irish","'so near and yet so far,' said the man when the bird lit on his gun."
"Irish","'Tis afterwards that everything is understood."
"Irish","'Tis as hard to see a woman cry, as a goose go barefoot."
"Irish","'what a dust we kick up,' as the fly said to the cart wheel."
"Irish","No war is more bitter than the war of friends, but it does not last long."
"Irish","Never ask God to give you anything; ask Him to put you where."
"Irish","A little pleases a poor man."
"Irish","More grows in a tilled field than is sown in it."
"Irish","Nature breaks through the eyes of the cat."
"Irish","Nature will come through the claws, and the hound will follow the hare."
"Irish","Necessity is the mother of invention."
"Irish","Necessity knows no law."
"Irish","Need teaches a plan."
"Irish","Need teaches things unlawful."
"Irish","Neighbours bring comfort in adversity but only envy in success."
"Irish","Neither break a law nor make one."
"Irish","Neither give cherries to pigs nor advice to a fool."
"Irish","Never trust a spiteful man."
"Irish","Never ask a fox to mind the hens."
"Irish","A blind man can see his mouth."
"Irish","Never bolt your door with a boiled carrot."
"Irish","Never burn a penny candle looking for a halfpenny."
"Irish","Never burn your fingers to snuff another man's candle."
"Irish","Never buy bread from a butcher."
"Irish","Never buy through your ears but through your eyes."
"Irish","Never call a Kerry man a fool until you're sure he's not a rogue."
"Irish","Never cast a clout till May be out."
"Irish","Never give cherries to pigs or advice to fools."
"Irish","Never praise your son-in-law until the year is out."
"Irish","Never put off tomorrow what you can do today."
"Irish","Never rub your eye with anything but your elbow."
"Irish","Neither gives cherries to pigs nor advice to a fool."
"Irish","A house divided will soon fall."
"Irish","A good retreat is better than a poor fight."
"Irish","A good servant makes a good master."
"Irish","A good word never broke a tooth."
"Irish","A goose never voted for an early Christmas."
"Irish","A greyhound finds food in its feet."
"Irish","A guest should be blind in another man's house."
"Irish","A hair on the head is worth two on the brush."
"Irish","A handstaff of holly, a buailtin of hazel,a single sheaf and a clean floor."
"Irish","A heavy heart seldom combs a gray beard."
"Irish","A heavy purse makes a light heart."
"Irish","A hen is heavy when carried far."
"Irish","A barrel that contains the wine will retain the drop in its staves."
"Irish","A hound's food is in its legs."
"Irish","A good farmer is know by his crops."
"Irish","A hungry ass keeps her kicking end down."
"Irish","A hut is a palace to the poor man."
"Irish","A Kerry shower is of twenty-four hours."
"Irish","A kind word never broke anyone's mouth."
"Irish","A king's son is not nobler than his food."
"Irish","A lie travels farther than the truth."
"Irish","A light heart lives long."
"Irish","A light heart lives longest."
"Irish","A list full of gain and a village full of shame."
"Irish","A little dog can start a hare, but it takes a big one to catch it."
"Irish","A little of anything isn't worth a pin; but a wee bit of sense is worth a lot."
"Irish","A hint is sufficient for the wise."
"Irish","A drink precedes a story."
"Irish","Money makes the horse gallop whether he has shoes or not."
"Irish","A boys best friend is his mother and there's no spancel stronger than her apron string."
"Irish","A buckle is a great addition to an old shoe."
"Irish","A cabin with plenty of food is better than a hungry castle."
"Irish","A cart-horse could never win the derby."
"Irish","A closed mouth--a wise head."
"Irish","A debt is still unpaid, even if forgotten."
"Irish","A dimple in the chin; a devil within."
"Irish","A diplomat must always think twice before he says nothing."
"Irish","A disease known is half cured."
"Irish","A dishonest woman can't be kept in and an honest woman won't."
"Irish","A good laugh and a long sleep are the two best cures in the doctor's book."
"Irish","A dog with two homes is never any good."
"Irish","A good heart never went to hell."
"Irish","A fast is better than a bad meal."
"Irish","A fool and his money are easily parted."
"Irish","A fool's money is not long in his pocket."
"Irish","A foolish woman knows a foolish man's faults."
"Irish","A friend's eye is a good mirror."
"Irish","A full pig in the sty doesn't find the hungry one going by."
"Irish","A glutton lives to eat, a wise man eats to live."
"Irish","A glutton lives to eat; a wise man eats to live."
"Irish","A golden ring can tie a man as tight as any chain."
"Irish","A good beginning is half the work."
"Irish","A good denial, the best point in law."
"Irish","A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush."
"Irish","A dog owns nothing, yet is seldom dissatisfied."
"Irish","It's not the fault of the mouse, but of the one who offers him the cheese."
"Irish","M?r has a maid and yet M?r has to beg."
"Irish","It's gradually that castles are built."
"Irish","It's hard to kill a bad thing."
"Irish","It's hard to make a choice between two blind dogs."
"Irish","It's hard to take britches off bare hips."
"Irish","It's just a wisp in place of a brush."
"Irish","It's natural for ducks to go barefoot."
"Irish","It's no delay to stop to edge the tool."
"Irish","It's no use boiling your cabbage twice."
"Irish","It's no use carrying an umbrella if your shoes are leaking."
"Irish","It's no use locking the stable door after the horse has bolted."
"Irish","It's easy to knead when meal is at hand."
"Irish","It's not enough to know how to ride, you must also know how to fall."
"Irish","It's easy to halve the potato where there's love."
"Irish","It's not worth a cuckoo-spit."
"Irish","It's often a man's mouth broke his nose."
"Irish","It's often a person's mouth broke their nose."
"Irish","It's the quiet pigs that eat the grain."
"Irish","Its no use going to the goat's house to look for wool."
"Irish","Keep a thing for seven years and you'll find a use for it."
"Irish","Keep a thing seven years and you'll always find a use for it."
"Irish","Keep the bone and the dog will follow."
"Irish","Keep your house and your house will keep you."
"Irish","Keep your tongue in your jaw and your tow in your pump."
"Irish","Lack of resource has hanged many a person."
"Irish","It's not a matter of upper and lower class but of being up a while and down a while."
"Irish","It was not on one foot that st. patrick came to ireland."
"Irish","Fences have ears."
"Irish","It is a poor village that has neither smoke nor fire."
"Irish","It is not easy to steal where the landlord is a thief."
"Irish","It is not enough for a man to know how to ride; he must know how to fall."
"Irish","It is not the big farmers who reap all the harvest."
"Irish","It is not the most beautiful woman who has the most sense."
"Irish","It is often that a cow does not take after its breed."
"Irish","It is sweet to drink but bitter to pay for."
"Irish","It is the deaf people that create the lies."
"Irish","It is the good horse that draws its own cart."
"Irish","It is the quiet pigs that eat the meal."
"Irish","It's for her own good that the cat purrs."
"Irish","It takes time to build castles. Rome wan not built in a day."
"Irish","Least said soonest mended."
"Irish","It's a bad hen that won't scratch herself."
"Irish","It's a bad hound that's not worth the whistling."
"Irish","It's a small thing that outlives a man."
"Irish","It's as hard to see a woman crying as it is to see a barefooted duck."
"Irish","It's bad manners to talk about ropes in the house of a man whose father was hanged."
"Irish","It's better than it's want."
"Irish","It's better than the loan you couldn't get."
"Irish","It's better to be sorry and stay, than to be sorry and go away."
"Irish","It's better to return from the centre of the ford than drown in the flood."
"Irish","It's difficult to choose between two blind goats."
"Irish","It's difficult to trust a woman."
"Irish","It is to please herself that the cat purrs."
"Irish","May the smile of God light you to glory."
"Irish","Many a white collar covers a dirty neck."
"Irish","Many an honest heart beats under a ragged coat."
"Irish","Many an Irish property was increased by the lace of a daughter's petticoat."
"Irish","Many hands make light work."
"Irish","Marriages are all happy -- it's having breakfast together that causes all the trouble."
"Irish","Marriages are all happy its having breakfast together that causes all the trouble."
"Irish","Marriages are all happy. It's having breakfast together that causes all the trouble."
"Irish","Marriages are all happy; its having breakfast together that causes all the trouble."
"Irish","Marry a mountain girl and you marry the whole mountain."
"Irish","Marry a mountain woman and you will marry the mountain."
"Irish","Marry a woman from Truagh and you marry all Truagh."
"Irish","Law is costly; shake hands and be friends."
"Irish","May the saddest day of your future be no worse than the happiest day of your past."
"Irish","Many a happy colt makes a fine horse."
"Irish","May you have a bright future -- as the chimney sweep said to his son."
"Irish","May you live to be a hundred -- and decide then rest for yourself."
"Irish","May you never forget what is worth remembering, or remember what is best forgotten."
"Irish","May your anger set with the sun and not rise again with it."
"Irish","May your neighbors respect you, Trouble neglect you, The angels protect you, And heaven accept you."
"Irish","Men are like bagpipes no sound comes from them until they're full."
"Irish","Men are like bagpipes-no sound comes from them until they're full."
"Irish","Men are like bagpipes: no sound comes from them till they're full."
"Irish","Men are more prone to revenge injuries than to requite kindnesses."
"Irish","Mere words do not feed the friars."
"Irish","Money is like muck - no good till spread."
"Irish","May the hinges of our friendship never grow rusty."
"Irish","Long churning makes bad butter."
"Irish","Nature shines through the cat's eyes."
"Irish","Leave the bad tale where you found it."
"Irish","Let him who will not have advice have conflict."
"Irish","Let him who will not take advice have conflict."
"Irish","Let your anger set with the sun and not rise again."
"Irish","Let your bargain suit your purpose."
"Irish","Like an Irish wolf she barks at her own shadow."
"Irish","Limerick was, Dublin is, and Cork shall be the finest city of the three."
"Irish","Lions believe that everyone shares their state of mind."
"Irish","Listen to the sound of the river and you will catch a trout."
"Irish","Little by little, the bird builds her nest."
"Irish","Many a sudden change takes place on a spring day."
"Irish","Live in my heart and pay no rent."
"Irish","Many a rose-cheeked apple is rotten at the core."
"Irish","Long loneliness is better than bad company."
"Irish","Long sleep makes a bare back."
"Irish","Love conceals ugliness, and hate sees many faults."
"Irish","Love is blind to blemishes and faults."
"Irish","Love is blind."
"Irish","Luck and laziness go hand in hand."
"Irish","Make hay while the sun shines."
"Irish","make your hay before the fine weather leaves you."
"Irish","Making the beginning is one third of the work."
"Irish","Man to the hills, woman to the shore."
"Irish","Many a defect is seen in the poor man."
"Irish","Laziness is a heavy burden."
"Irish","Little talk is easy to cure."
"Irish","Better for a man to have even a dog welcome him than a dog bark at him."
"Irish","Beef to the heels like a Mullingar heifer."
"Irish","Better the certainty of the straddle than the mere loan of a saddle."
"Irish","Better sit beside him than in his place."
"Irish","Better own a trifle than want a great deal."
"Irish","Better one house spoiled than two."
"Irish","Better one good thing that is, rather than two good things that were, or three good things that might never come to pass."
"Irish","Beware of people who dislike cats."
"Irish","Better is an ass that carries you than a horse that throws you."
"Irish","Beware of the anger of a patient man."
"Irish","Better fifty enemies outside the house than one within."
"Irish","Better be safe than sorry."
"Irish","Better be quarrelling than lonesome."
"Irish","Better be quarreling than lonesome."
"Irish","Better April showers than the breadth of the ocean in gold."
"Irish","Better an idle house than a bad tenant."
"Irish","A woman like a sheep, an affable friendly woman."
"Irish","Better is the trouble that follows death than the trouble that follows shame."
"Irish","Cleaning the house will not pay the rent."
"Irish","Dead with tea and dead without it."
"Irish","Dancing was first started by a madman."
"Irish","Dance as if no one were watching. Sing as if no one were listening. And live every day as if it were your last."
"Irish","Crafty advice is often got from a fool."
"Irish","Continual cheerfulness is a sign of wisdom."
"Irish","Constant company wears out its welcome."
"Irish","Better the coldness of a friend than the sweetness of an enemy."
"Irish","Come seldom, come welcome."
"Irish","Beauty never boiled the pot and ugliness never thickened it."
"Irish","Choose your company before you go drinking."
"Irish","Castles were built a stone at a time."
"Irish","By degrees the castles are built."
"Irish","Bricks and mortar make a house, but the laughter of children makes a home."
"Irish","Both your friend and your enemy think that you will never die."
"Irish","Big men are not the only kind that can reap a harvest."
"Irish","Big bellies were never generous."
"Irish","Comfort is not known if poverty does not come before it."
"Irish","All are not saints that go to church."
"Irish","Bend with the tree that will bend with you."
"Irish","An Irishman is never at his best except when fighting."
"Irish","An inch is a great deal on a nose."
"Irish","An eye is blind in another man's corner."
"Irish","An excuse is nearer to a woman than her apron."
"Irish","An empty house is better than a bad tenant."
"Irish","Any fool carries an umbrella on a wet day, but the wise man carries it every day."
"Irish","All happy endings are beginnings as well."
"Irish","Any man can lose his hat in a fairy - wind."
"Irish","Age is honorable and youth is noble."
"Irish","After the gathering comes the scattering."
"Irish","About evening a man is known."
"Irish","A wren in the hand is better than a crane to be caught."
"Irish","A woman without is she who has neither pipe nor child."
"Irish","A woman told me that a woman told her."
"Irish","A woman like a sickle, a strong stubborn woman."
"Irish","All sins cast long shadows."
"Irish","As the old cock crows, the young cock learns."
"Irish","Beauty is only skin deep, ugliness goes to the bone."
"Irish","Be there with the day and be gone with the day."
"Irish","Be neither intimate nor distant with the clergy."
"Irish","Be kind to those that meet you as you rise, you may pass them again as you fall."
"Irish","Autumn days come quickly like the running of a hound on the moor."
"Irish","As you slide down the banister of life, may the splinters never point the wrong way."
"Irish","An old broom knows the dirty corners best."
"Irish","As you live yourself, you judge your neighbor."
"Irish","Death is the poor man's best physician."
"Irish","As the big hound is, so will the pup be."
"Irish","As sluttish and slatternly as an Irishwoman bred in France."
"Irish","As honest as a cat when the meat is out of reach."
"Irish","Apelles was not a master painter the first day."
"Irish","Anything will fit a naked man."
"Irish","Anything is better than a bad marriage."
"Irish","Any man who owns a cow can always find a woman to milk her."
"Irish","As you see yourself, I once saw myself; as you see me now, you will be seen."
"Irish","Even a tin knocker will shine on a dirty floor."
"Irish","Death and marriages make changes."
"Irish","Every eye forms its own fancy."
"Irish","Every cock can crow on his own dunghill."
"Irish","Every bird as it is reared and the lark for the bog."
"Irish","Even the truth may be bitter."
"Irish","Even the longest day has its end."
"Irish","Every invalid is a physician."
"Irish","Even a worm will turn."
"Irish","Every Jack has his Jill."
"Irish","Even a tin knocker shines on a dirty door."
"Irish","Even a small thorn causes festering."
"Irish","Eight lives for the men and nine for the women."
"Irish","Drunkenness and anger, 'tis said tell the truth."
"Irish","Drunkenness and anger speak truthfully."
"Irish","Drink is the curse of the land. It makes you fight with your neighbour. It makes you shoot at your landlord and it makes you miss him."
"Irish","Don't throw out the dirty water until you have the clean water in."
"Irish","Even black hens lay white eggs."
"Irish","Everyone praises his native land."
"Irish","Fear is a fine spur; so is rage."
"Irish","Fear is a fine spur, so is rage."
"Irish","More hair than tit, like a mountain heifer."
"Irish","Fame lives on after death."
"Irish","A live dog is better than a dead lion."
"Irish","F air words never fed a friar."
"Irish","Every invalid is a doctor."
"Irish","Everything dear is a woman's fancy."
"Irish","Don't tell secrets to the children of your relatives."
"Irish","Everyone lays a burden on the willing horse."
"Irish","Everyone is wise until he speaks."
"Irish","Everyone is wise till he speaks."
"Irish","Everyone is nice until the cow gets into the garden."
"Irish","Everyone is nice till the cow gets into the garden."
"Irish","Every patient is a doctor after his cure."
"Irish","Every little frog is great in his own bog."
"Irish","Everything troubles you and the cat breaks your heart."
"Irish","Do not mistake a goats beard for a fine stallion's tail."
"Irish","Don't break your shin on a stool that is not in your way."
"Irish","Don't bother the beggar's son and the beggar's son won't bother you."
"Irish","Don't bless the fish till it gets to the land."
"Irish","Don't bid the devil good day till you meet him."
"Irish","Don't be too friendly with the clergy and don't fall out with them."
"Irish","Don't be hard and don't be soft and don't desert your friend for your own share."
"Irish","Don't tell your secret even to a fence."
"Irish","Do not show your teeth until you can bite."
"Irish","Don't count your chickens before they are hatched."
"Irish","Do not mistake a goat's beard for a fine stallion's tail."
"Irish","Do not keep your tongue under your belt."
"Irish","Do not be talkative in an alehouse."
"Irish","Do it as if there was fire in your skin."
"Irish","Discord is less painful than loneliness."
"Irish","Death is the poor man's doctor."
"Irish","Falling is easier than rising."
"Irish","Don't be ever in court or a castle without a woman to make your excuse."
"Irish","Don't go putting wool on a sheep's back."
"Irish","Death is in front of the old person and at the back of the young person."
"Irish","Don't talk about a rope in the house of someone whose father was hung."
"Irish","Don't take a slate off your own house to put on your neighbor's."
"Irish","Don't say everything you want to say lest you hear something you would not like to hear."
"Irish","Don't rest your eyes beyond what is your own."
"Irish","Don't outstay your welcome like a neighbor's goat."
"Irish","Don't mention him and a decent man in the one day."
"Irish","Don't bring all your eggs to one market."
"Irish","Don't go to law with the devil in the court of hell."
"Irish","Don't build the sty until the litter comes."
"Irish","Don't go early or late to the well."
"Irish","Don't give cherries to a pig; don't give advice to a fool."
"Irish","Don't expect a cherry tree from an acorn."
"Irish","Don't demand your rights until you have the power."
"Irish","Don't cut your cactus in a neighbor's garden."
"Irish","Don't crow till you're out of the woods."
"Irish","Don't tell your complaint to one who has no pity."
"Irish","Don't let your tongue cut your throat."
"Irish","A short visit is best and that not too often."
"Irish","A ring on a good woman's finger is no good without a blouse on her back."
"Irish","A sly rogue is often in good dress."
"Irish","A silent mouth never did any harm."
"Irish","A silent mouth is sweet to hear."
"Irish","A silent mouth is musical."
"Irish","A small debt makes a man your debtor, a large one your enemy."
"Irish","A shrew gets her wish but suffers in the getting."
"Irish","A smokey cabin, a handful of spuds and a flea-filled bed."
"Irish","A shamefaced man seldom acquires wealth."
"Irish","A secret is a weapon and a friend."
"Irish","A scholars ink lasts longer than a martyr's blood."
"Irish","A scholar's ink lasts longer than a martyr's blood."
"Irish","A sabbath well-spent brings a week of content."
"Irish","A welcome is a debtor's face."
"Irish","A silent mouth is melodious."
"Irish","A thorn, a hound's tooth, a fool's word: these are the three sharpest things."
"Irish","A wedge from itself splits the oak tree."
"Irish","A watched kettle never boils."
"Irish","A Tyrone woman will never buy a rabbit without a head for fear it's a cat."
"Irish","A turkey never voted for an early Christmas."
"Irish","A true friend laughs at your stories even when they're not so good, and sympathizes with your troubles even when they're not so bad."
"Irish","A small benefit obtained is better than a great one in expectation."
"Irish","A trade not properly learned is an enemy."
"Irish","A rainy day is not a day for children."
"Irish","A swan would die with pride only for its black feet."
"Irish","A story without an author is not worth listening to."
"Irish","A stirring foot always gets something, even if it's only a thorn."
"Irish","A spender gets the property of the hoarder."
"Irish","A soft dropping April brings milk to cows and sheep."
"Irish","A soft answer turns away anger."
"Irish","A trout in the pot is better than a salmon in the sea."
"Irish","A man is no more encumbered by his soul than the steed by his bridle or the lake by the swan."
"Irish","A rolling stone gathers no moss, but it gets a great shine."
"Irish","A man who holds good cards would never say if they were dealt wrong."
"Irish","A man may be his own ruin."
"Irish","A man loves his sweetheart the most, his wife the best, but his mother the longest."
"Irish","A man lives long in his native place."
"Irish","A misty winter brings a pleasant spring, a pleasant winter a misty spring."
"Irish","A man is often a bad adviser to himself and a good adviser to another."
"Irish","A narrow neck keeps the bottle from being emptied in one swig."
"Irish","A man has often cut a rod to beat himself."
"Irish","A loud voice can make even the truth sound foolish."
"Irish","A loan long continued usually confers ownership."
"Irish","A lock is better than suspicion."
"Irish","A woman like a pig, a sleepy-headed woman."
"Irish","Fat is not to be had without labour."
"Irish","A man is shy in another man's corner."
"Irish","A person's heart is in his feet."
"Irish","A quiet tongue shows a wise head."
"Irish","A questioning man is halfway to being wise."
"Irish","A quarrel is like buttermilk: once it's out of the churn, the more you shake it, the more sour it grows."
"Irish","A promise is a debt."
"Irish","A postponement till morning A postponement for ever."
"Irish","A meeting in sunlight is lucky, and a burying in the rain."
"Irish","A poem ought to be well made at first, for there is many a one to spoil it afterwards."
"Irish","A man with a loud laugh makes truth itself seem folly, Truth is great and will win out."
"Irish","A person's health is in his feet."
"Irish","A person born to be a flower pot will not go beyond the porch."
"Irish","A penny in a poor man's pocket is better than two pennies in a rich man's pocket."
"Irish","A nod's as good as a wink to a blind horse."
"Irish","A nod is as good as a wink to a blind donkey."
"Irish","A new broom sweeps clean, but the old brush knows all the corners."
"Irish","A poor person is often worthy."
"Irish","A windy day is the wrong one for thatching."
"Irish","A whistling woman and a crowing hen will bring no luck to the house they are in."
"Irish","A man of one cow - a man of no cow."
"Irish","A wise head keeps a shut mouth."
"Irish","A windy day is not the day for thatching."
"Irish","A wild goose never reared a tame gosling."
"Irish","A woman can beat the devil."
"Irish","A woman like a goat, a woman of rushing visits."
"Irish","A woman like a goose, a sharp pecking woman."
"Irish","A woman like a lamb, a quiet friendly woman."
"Irish","All sins cast long shadows."
"Irish","A silent mouth is sweet to hear."
"Irish","A sly rogue is often in good dress."
"Irish","A small benefit obtained is better than a great one in expectation."
"Irish","A trade not properly learned is an enemy."
"Irish","A trout in the pot is better than a salmon in the sea."
"Irish","A true friend laughs at your stories even when they're not so good, and sympathizes with your troubles even when they're not so bad."
"Irish","A Tyrone woman will never buy a rabbit without a head for fear it's a cat."
"Irish","Anything will fit a naked man."
"Irish","An old broom knows the dirty corners best."
"Irish","Any man can lose his hat in a fairy wind."
"Irish","A scholar's ink lasts longer than a martyr's blood."
"Irish","A turkey never voted for an early Christmas."
"Irish","A quiet tongue shows a wise head."
"Irish","A quarrel is like buttermilk: once it's out of the churn, the more you shake it, the more sour it grows."
"Irish","A nod's as good as a wink to a blind horse."
"Irish","A nod is as good as a wink to a blind horse."
"Irish","A new broom sweeps clean, but an old broom knows the corners."
"Irish","A narrow neck keeps the bottle from being emptied in one swig."
"Irish","A man is often a bad adviser to himself and a good adviser to another."
"Irish","A lock is better than suspicion."
"Irish","A good servant makes a good master."
"Irish","A good retreat is better than a bad stand."
"Irish","A good laugh and a long sleep are the best cures in the doctor's book."
"Irish","A fast is better than a bad meal."
"Irish","Better be quarreling than lonesome."
"Irish","A disease known is half cured."
"Irish","A dog with two homes is never any good."
"Irish","The slow horse reaches the mill."
"Irish","The longest road out is the shortest road home."
"Irish","The longest way around is the shortest way home."
"Irish","The mason who strikes often is better than the one who strikes too hard."
"Irish","The mills of the gods grind slowly but they grind finely."
"Irish","The old pipe gives the sweetest smoke."
"Irish","The older the fiddle the sweeter the tune."
"Irish","Apelles was not a master painter the first day."
"Irish","The seeking for one thing will find another."
"Irish","The full person does not understand the needs of the hungry."
"Irish","The stars make no noise."
"Irish","The thief is no danger to the beggar."
"Irish","The thief is sorry he is to be hanged, not that he is a thief."
"Irish","The wearer best knows where the shoe pinches."
"Irish","The windy day is not a day for scallops [thatching]."
"Irish","The work praises the man."
"Irish","There are finer fish in the sea than have ever been caught."
"Irish","The raggy colt often made a powerful horse."
"Irish","Soft words butter no parsnips, but they won't harden the heart of the cabbage either."
"Irish","Praise the young and they will blossom."
"Irish","Praise undeserved is satire in disguise."
"Irish","Praise without profit puts little in the pocket."
"Irish","Put a beggar on horseback and he'll gallop."
"Irish","Put a coward to his metal an' he'll fight the de'il."
"Irish","Put silk on a goat and it is still a goat."
"Irish","Quiet people are well able to look after themselves."
"Irish","The hole is more honorable than the patch."
"Irish","Snuff at a wake is fine if there's nobody sneezing over the snuff box."
"Irish","The herb that can't be got is the one that heals."
"Irish","Take gifts with a sigh; most men give to be paid."
"Irish","Take heed is a good reed."
"Irish","The beginning of health is sleep."
"Irish","The best way to keep loyalty in a man's heart is to keep money in his purse."
"Irish","The day will come when the cow will have use for her tail."
"Irish","The devil never grants long leases."
"Irish","There is light at the end of the tunnel."
"Irish","Scattering is easier than gathering."
"Irish","You must crack the nuts before you can eat the kernel."
"Irish","There are fish in the sea better than have ever been caught."
"Irish","When the hand ceases to scatter, the heart ceases to pray."
"Irish","When the hand is clean, It needs no screen."
"Irish","When the sky falls we'll all catch larks."
"Irish","Where the tongue slips, it speaks the truth."
"Irish","Winter comes fast on the lazy."
"Irish","Women do not drink liquor but it disappears when they are present."
"Irish","What's good for the goose is good for the gander."
"Irish","You are not a fully fledged sailor unless you have sailed under full sail, and you have not built a wall unless you have rounded a corner."
"Irish","What the child sees, the child does. What the child does, the child is."
"Irish","You must cut your coat according to your cloth."
"Irish","You've got to do your own growing, no matter how tall your grandfather was."
"Irish","Your son is your son until he marries, but your daughter is your daughter until you die."
"Irish","Youth does not mind where it sets its foot."
"Irish","Youth has a small head."
"Irish","Youth is wasted on the young."
"Irish","Youth sheds many a skin. The steed (horse) does not retain its speed forever."
"Irish","Women in state affairs are like monkeys in glass-houses."
"Irish","Two Sir Positives can scarce meet without a skirmish."
"Irish","Postpone not a good action."
"Irish","There is no luck except where there is discipline."
"Irish","There is no strength without unity."
"Irish","There never was a scabby sheep in a flock that didn't like to have a comrade."
"Irish","There never was an old slipper but there was an old stocking to match it."
"Irish","There's no need to fear the wind if your haystacks are tied down."
"Irish","Treachery returns."
"Irish","When a twig grows hard it is difficult to twist it. Every beginning is weak."
"Irish","Two shorten the road."
"Irish","There is hope from the sea, but none from the grave."
"Irish","Two thirds of the work is the semblance."
"Irish","Two to one is odds."
"Irish","Two-thirds of help is to give courage."
"Irish","Walk straight, my son - as the old crab said to the young crab."
"Irish","We'll never know the worth of water till the well go dry."
"Irish","What fills the eye fills the heart."
"Irish","What is in the marrow is hard to take out of the bone."
"Irish","Trust me, but look to thyself."
"Irish","If you come up in this world, be sure not to go down in the next."
"Irish","It is easy to halve the potato where there's love."
"Irish","Good luck comes in slender currents, misfortune in a rolling tides."
"Irish","Great hate follows great love."
"Irish","Handfuls make a load."
"Irish","He who gets a name for early rising can stay in bed until midday."
"Irish","His eyes are like two burnt holes in a blanket."
"Irish","His face would hang him."
"Irish","Firelight will not let you read fine stories but it's warm and you won't see the dust on the floor."
"Irish","If the knitter is weary the baby will have no new bonnet."
"Irish","Fear is a fine spur; so is rage."
"Irish","If you have one pair of good soles it is better than two pairs of good uppers."
"Irish","If you have to swallow a frog, try not to think about it. If you have to swallow two frogs, don't swallow the smaller one first."
"Irish","Instinct is stronger than upbringing."
"Irish","It destroys the craft not to learn it."
"Irish","It is a long road that has no turning."
"Irish","It is better to be a coward for a minute than dead the rest of your life."
"Irish","Praise the ripe field, not the green corn."
"Irish","Humor to a man is like a feather pillow. It is filled with what is easy to get but gives great comfort."
"Irish","Even a tin knocker will shine on a dirty floor."
"Irish","Death is the poor man's best physician."
"Irish","Better fifty enemies outside the house than one within."
"Irish","Better one good thing that is than two good things that were."
"Irish","Better one house spoiled than two."
"Irish","Beware of people who dislike cats."
"Irish","Continual cheerfulness is a sign of wisdom."
"Irish","Crafty advice is often got from a fool."
"Irish","Good luck beats early rising."
"Irish","Drink is the curse of the land. It makes you fight with your neighbor. It makes you shoot at your landlord and it makes you miss him."
"Irish","It is no time to go for the doctor when the patient is dead."
"Irish","Even a worm will turn."
"Irish","Every invalid is a doctor."
"Irish","Every Jack has his Jill."
"Irish","Every patient is a doctor after his cure."
"Irish","Everyone is nice until the cow gets into the garden."
"Irish","Everyone is wise until he speaks."
"Irish","Falling is easier than rising."
"Irish","Do not mistake a goat's beard for a fine stallion's tail."
"Irish","No matter how often a pitcher goes to the water it is broken in the end."
"Irish","It is better to exist unknown to the law."
"Irish","Nature will come through the claws, and the hound will follow the hare."
"Irish","Need teaches a plan."
"Irish","Need teaches things unlawful."
"Irish","Neither give cherries to pigs nor advice to fools."
"Irish","Never bolt your door with a boiled carrot."
"Irish","Never burn your fingers to snuff another man's candle."
"Irish","Mere words do not feed the friars."
"Irish","Never cast a clout till May be out."
"Irish","Men are more prone to revenge injuries than to requite kindnesses."
"Irish","Nodding the head does not row the boat."
"Irish","Noiseless is the approach of the avenging deities."
"Irish","One beetle recognizes another."
"Irish","Patience is poultice for all wounds."
"Irish","Poor is the church without music."
"Irish","Poor men take to the sea, the rich to the mountains."
"Irish","Be neither intimate nor distant with the clergy."
"Irish","Never buy through your ears but through your eyes."
"Irish","Keep a thing for seven years and you'll find a use for it."
"Irish","It is not a fish until it is on the bank."
"Irish","It is not a sin to sell dear, but it is to make ill measure."
"Irish","It is the quiet pigs that eat the meal."
"Irish","It's a bad hen that won't scratch herself."
"Irish","It's as hard to see a woman crying as it is to see a barefooted duck."
"Irish","It's for her own good that the cat purrs."
"Irish","It's no delay to stop to edge the tool."
"Irish","Nature breaks through the eyes of the cat."
"Irish","It's no use locking the stable door after the horse has bolted."
"Irish","Poverty parts good company."
"Irish","Keep a thing seven years and you'll always find a use for it."
"Irish","Lack of resource has hanged many a person."
"Irish","Let him who will not have advice have conflict."
"Irish","Listen to the sound of the river and you will get a trout."
"Irish","Marriages are all happy. It's having breakfast together that causes all the trouble."
"Irish","Marry a mountain girl and you marry the whole mountain."
"Irish","Men are like bagpipes: no sound comes from them till they're full."
"Irish","It's no use boiling your cabbage twice."
"Irish","A cabin with plenty of food is better than a hungry castle."
"Irish","A buckle is a great addition to an old shoe."
"Irish","A blind man can see his mouth."
"Irish","Don't give cherries to pigs or advice to fools."
"Irish","A dimple in the chin; a devil within."
"Islamic","To you your religion and to me my religion."
"Islamic","To you your religion and to me my religion."
"Israeli","A cheerful heart is good medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones."
"Israeli","Everything revolves around bread and death."
"Israeli","Don't be too sweet lest you be eaten up; don't be too bitter lest you be spewed out."
"Israeli","Don't approach a goat from the front, a horse from the back, or a fool from any side."
"Israeli","Do not respond to a barking dog."
"Israeli","Commit a sin twice and it will not seem a crime."
"Israeli","Ask about your neighbors, then buy the house."
"Israeli","All things grow with time - except grief."
"Israeli","A slave shows his true character, not while he is enslaved but when he becomes a master."
"Israeli","God could not be everywhere, and therefore he made mothers."
"Israeli","A mother understands what a child does not say."
"Israeli","If you can't go over, you must go under."
"Israeli","A bird that you set free may be caught again, but a word that escapes your lips will not return."
"Israeli","A pessimist, confronted with two bad choices, chooses both."
"Israeli","The favorite place of God is in the heart of man."
"Israeli","You can't force anyone to love you or lend you money."
"Israeli","Worries go down better with soup."
"Israeli","Where two Jews, three opinions."
"Israeli","When you're hungry, sing; when you're hurt, laugh."
"Israeli","When a father gives to his son, both laugh; when a son gives to his father, both cry."
"Israeli","What you don't see with your eyes, don't invent with your mouth."
"Israeli","What one has, one doesn't want, and what one wants, one doesn't have."
"Israeli","If the rich could hire someone else to die for them, the poor would make a wonderful living."
"Israeli","Time heals old pain, while it creates new ones."
"Israeli","He who puts up with insult invites injury."
"Israeli","People make plans and God laughs."
"Israeli","One of life's greatest mysteries is how the boy who wasn't good enough to marry your daughter can be the father of the smartest grandchild in the world."
"Israeli","Loneliness breaks the spirit."
"Israeli","In choosing a friend, go up a step."
"Israeli","If you want your dreams to come true, don't sleep."
"Israeli","Let a good man do good deeds with the same zeal that the evil man does bad ones."
"Israeli","If there is bitterness in the heart, sugar in the mouth won't make life sweeter."
"Israeli","If God lived on earth, people would break his windows."
"Israeli","We do not see things the way they are but as we are."
"Israeli","Never trust the man who tells you all his troubles but keeps from you all his joys."
"Italain","Bed is the poor man's opera."
"Italian","When your neighbor's house is on fire, carry water to your own."
"Italian","Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow."
"Italian","The stitch is lost unless the thread is knotted."
"Italian","The best armor is to keep out of range."
"Italian","It is not enough to aim.; you must hit."
"Italian","He who builds by the roadside has many surveyors."
"Italian","A bad agreement is better than a good lawsuit."
"Italian","The pope and a peasant know more between them than the pope alone."
"Italian","Where the river is deepest it makes least noise."
"Italian","He who lets the goat be laid on his shoulders is soon after forced to carry the cow."
"Italian","He who knows little quickly tells it."
"Italian","There is no worse robber than a bad book."
"Italian","Of two cowards, the one who finds the other out first has the advantage."
"Italian","Those who sleep with dogs will rise with fleas."
"Italian","Below the navel there is neither religion nor truth."
"Italian","By asking for the impossible, obtain the best possible."
"Italian","Since the house is on fire let us warm ourselves."
"Italian","When a wife sins the husband is never innocent."
"Italian","Let every fox take care of his own tail."
"Italian","He who fails to plan, plans to fail."
"Italian","He who guesses well prophesies well."
"Italian","He who grasps too much holds nothing fast."
"Italian","He who goes to the mill gets befloured."
"Italian","He who knows nothing never doubts."
"Italian","He who goes slowly goes safely and goes far."
"Italian","He who knows the road can ride full trot."
"Italian","He who goes not into battle cannot wear a crown."
"Italian","He who does the wrong forgets it, but not he who receives it."
"Italian","He who gives bread to others' dogs is often barked at by his own."
"Italian","He who has a glass roof should not throw stones at his neighbour's."
"Italian","He who excuses, accuses himself."
"Italian","He who esteems none but himself is as happy as a king."
"Italian","He who enjoys good health is rich, though he knows it not."
"Italian","He who eats pears with his master should not choose the best."
"Italian","He who eats alone dies alone."
"Italian","He who doth the injury never forgives the injured man."
"Italian","He who has scalded himself once blows the next time."
"Italian","He who gives fair words feeds you with an empty spoon."
"Italian","He who has been stung by a serpent is afraid of a lizard."
"Italian","He who has nothing, lacks nothing."
"Italian","He who knows nothing knows enough, if he knows how to be silent."
"Italian","He who has no patience, has nothing at all."
"Italian","He who has money to throw away, let him employ workmen, and not stand by."
"Italian","He who has money finds many cousins."
"Italian","He who has loaves has dogs."
"Italian","He who has land has war."
"Italian","He who has a bad name is half hanged."
"Italian","He who has crossed the ford knows how deep it is."
"Italian","He who has a bad tongue should have good loins."
"Italian","He who has a tongue, may go to Rome."
"Italian","He who has a straw tail is always in fear of its catching fire."
"Italian","He who has a mind to beat a dog will easily find a stick."
"Italian","He who has a mate has a master."
"Italian","He who has a head won't want for a hat."
"Italian","He who has a good neighbour has a good morning."
"Italian","He who has a good horse in his stable may go on foot."
"Italian","He who does not when he can, cannot when he will."
"Italian","He who has his own mother never cries."
"Italian","He that shows his passion, tells his enemy where he may hit him."
"Italian","He who doth his own business defileth not his fingers."
"Italian","He that would have the fruit, must climb the tree."
"Italian","He that would have eggs must endure the cackling of hens."
"Italian","He that would have a thing done quickly and well must do it himself."
"Italian","He that would beat his dog can easily find a stick."
"Italian","He that would be ill served should keep plenty of servants."
"Italian","He that will not strive in this world should not have come into it."
"Italian","He wastes his tears who weeps before the judge."
"Italian","He that stands may fall."
"Italian","He who begins ill finishes worse."
"Italian","He that shows his money shows his judgment."
"Italian","He that seeks, finds, and sometimes what he would rather not."
"Italian","He that seeks to have many friends never has any."
"Italian","He that runs fast will not run long."
"Italian","He that rewards flattery, begs it."
"Italian","He that repairs not a part, builds all."
"Italian","He that refuseth praise the first time does it because he would have it the second."
"Italian","He that reckons without his host must reckon again."
"Italian","He that wants should not be bashful."
"Italian","He who buys what he cannot pay for, sells what he would rather not."
"Italian","He who does many bad deeds can expect a big one in return."
"Italian","He who does as he likes has no headache."
"Italian","He who denies all confesses all."
"Italian","He who demands does not command."
"Italian","He who decries, wants to buy."
"Italian","He who climbs to high is near a fall."
"Italian","He who chastises one threatens a hundred."
"Italian","He that would heal a wound must not handle it."
"Italian","He who can wait obtains what he wishes."
"Italian","He who has teeth has no bread, and he who has bread has no teeth."
"Italian","He who buys the broom can also buy the handle."
"Italian","He who buys by the pennyworth keeps his own house and other men's too."
"Italian","He who buys betimes buys cheaply."
"Italian","He who builds on another's ground loses his stone and mortar."
"Italian","He who builds by the roadside has many surveyors."
"Italian","He who builds a house in the market-place, builds either too high or too low."
"Italian","He who blows dust fills his eyes with it."
"Italian","He who begins many things, finishes but few."
"Italian","He who cannot revenge himself is weak, he who will not is contemptible."
"Italian","He who sleeps catches no fish."
"Italian","He who perseveres wins at last."
"Italian","He who would have clear water should go to the fountain head."
"Italian","He who would relish his food must not see it cooked."
"Italian","He is not a man who cannot say no."
"Italian","He who would rest must work."
"Italian","He that passeth by, and meddleth with strife belonging not to him, is like one that taketh a dog by the ears."
"Italian","He who would stop every man's mouth must have a great deal of meal."
"Italian","He who would be rich in a year gets hanged in six months."
"Italian","He would be a good one to send for death."
"Italian","He who would be long an old man must begin betimes."
"Italian","He who sings drives away sorrow."
"Italian","He who serves two masters must lie to one of them."
"Italian","He who serves the public has a sorry master."
"Italian","He who scrubs the head of an ass wastes his soap."
"Italian","He who says what he likes shall hear what he does not like."
"Italian","He who says nothing never lies."
"Italian","He who risks nothing can gain nothing."
"Italian","He who knows nothing doubts nothing."
"Italian","He who wrongs someone has to expect something in retaliation."
"Italian","He who tells his own affairs will hardly keep secret those of others."
"Italian","He who speaks to your face is not a traitor."
"Italian","He who succeeds is reputed wise."
"Italian","He who sups with the devil must have a long spoon."
"Italian","He who sups with the Devil should have a long spoon."
"Italian","He who suspects is seldom at fault."
"Italian","He who swears is a liar."
"Italian","He who sweats more in peace, bleeds less in war."
"Italian","He who would enjoy the feast should fast on the eve."
"Italian","He who teaches often learns himself."
"Italian","He who pays well is master of another man's purse."
"Italian","He who thinks badly commits a sin but hits the mark."
"Italian","He who throws away money with his hands will seek it with his feet."
"Italian","He who touches pitch defiles himself."
"Italian","He who wants his dog killed has only to say he's mad."
"Italian","He who wants milk should not sit in the middle of a field and wait for a cow to back up to him."
"Italian","He who wants too much doesn't catch anything."
"Italian","He who will not serve one master must needs serve many."
"Italian","He who works by himself does the work of three."
"Italian","He who takes a woman gives away his freedom."
"Italian","He who knows little quickly tells it."
"Italian","He who praises himself befouls himself."
"Italian","He who is not impatient is not in love."
"Italian","He who is of the craft can discourse about it."
"Italian","He who is the cause of his own misfortune may bewail it himself."
"Italian","He who is the offender is never the forgiver."
"Italian","He who is unable is always willing."
"Italian","He who is without debt is without credit."
"Italian","He who is in hell knows not what heaven is."
"Italian","He who knows little knows enough if he knows how to hold his tongue."
"Italian","He who is guilty believes that all men speak ill of him."
"Italian","He who is an ass and thinks himself a stag, finds his mistake when he comes to leap the ditch."
"Italian","He who is an ass and takes himself to be a stag finds his mistake when he comes to leap the ditch."
"Italian","He who in under cover when it rains is a great fool if he stirs."
"Italian","He who hunts two hares does not catch the one and lets the other escape."
"Italian","He who holds a ladder is as bad as the thief."
"Italian","He who hath an ill name is half hanged."
"Italian","He who has, is."
"Italian","He who has the Pope for a cousin soon becomes a Cardinal."
"Italian","He who knows but little quickly tells it."
"Italian","He who lives by hope will die by hunger."
"Italian","He who never begins will never end."
"Italian","He who mentions Siena mentions the Palio."
"Italian","He who meddles in others people's affairs will be left with two of three parts."
"Italian","He who makes himself a servant is expected to remain a servant."
"Italian","He who makes himself a dove is eaten by the hawk."
"Italian","He who makes an idol of his interest makes a martyr of his integrity."
"Italian","He who loses is always in fault."
"Italian","He who is meant to be a basket-carrier is born with the handle in his hand."
"Italian","He who lives by the sword dies by the sword."
"Italian","He who sleeps well does not feel the fleas."
"Italian","He who lives among wolves learns to howl."
"Italian","He who likes drinking is always talking of wine."
"Italian","He who lets the goat be laid on his shoulders is soon after forced to carry the cow."
"Italian","He who laughs too much, is hiding his grief."
"Italian","He who laughs overmuch may have an aching heart."
"Italian","He who laughs last laughs best."
"Italian","He who is born with a weak intellect and a goiter can never be cured."
"Italian","He who is embarked with the devil must make the passage in his company."
"Italian","He who looks on has two-thirds of the game."
"Italian","God save me from him who has but one occupation."
"Italian","Gold is the devil's fishhook."
"Italian","Go to the square and ask advice; go home and do what you like."
"Italian","God gives a curst one short horns."
"Italian","God heals and the doctor has the thanks."
"Italian","God helps him who helps himself."
"Italian","God keep me from my friends, from my enemies I will keep myself."
"Italian","God preserve you from one who eats without drinking."
"Italian","Go softly at bad bits of road."
"Italian","God save me from a bad neighbor and a beginner on the fiddle."
"Italian","Go early to market and as late as you can to battle."
"Italian","God save me from him who studies but one book."
"Italian","God save me from one who does not drink."
"Italian","God save us from the enriched poor and from the impoverished rich."
"Italian","God save you from a bad neighbour, and from a beginner on the fiddle."
"Italian","God sends cold according to the clothes."
"Italian","God sends nothing but what can be borne."
"Italian","God sends us the meat, but it is the Devil who sends us cooks."
"Italian","He is not a wise man who cannot play the fool on occasions."
"Italian","God protect us from him who has read but one book."
"Italian","Give the wise man a hint and leave him to act."
"Italian","He conquers who endures."
"Italian","He cannot lead a good life who serves without wages."
"Italian","He begins to grow bad who believes himself good."
"Italian","Have two strings to your bow."
"Italian","Have not all your eggs in one nest."
"Italian","Give a dog an ill name, and you may as well hang him."
"Italian","Give credit where credit is due."
"Italian","Go to the sea if you would fish well."
"Italian","Give the priest drink, for the clerk is thirsty."
"Italian","Good bargains empty the purse."
"Italian","Give time time."
"Italian","Give to him that has."
"Italian","Give your friend a pig and your enemy a peach."
"Italian","Giving is fishing."
"Italian","Glowworms are not lanterns."
"Italian","Gluttony kills more than the sword."
"Italian","Gnaw the bone which is fallen to thy lot."
"Italian","Go abroad and you'll hear news of home."
"Italian","Give neither counsel nor salt till you are asked for it."
"Italian","Hard upon hard never made a good wall."
"Italian","Gold does not buy everything."
"Italian","Half a brain is enough for him who says little."
"Italian","Handsome is not what is handsome, but what pleases."
"Italian","Handsome women generally fall to the lot of ugly men."
"Italian","Happiness that lasts too long spoils the heart."
"Italian","Happy is she who is in love with an old dotard."
"Italian","Happy is the bride that the sun shines on."
"Italian","Grief for a dead wife lasts to the door."
"Italian","Hard is a new law imposed on old licence."
"Italian","Greater fools than they of Zago, who dunged the steeple to make it grow."
"Italian","Hard with hard makes not the stone wall."
"Italian","Hard words break no bones."
"Italian","Hard work never did anyone any harm."
"Italian","Harm watch, harm catch."
"Italian","Hasty climbers have sudden falls."
"Italian","Hatred renewed is worse than at first."
"Italian","Have an open face, but conceal your thoughts."
"Italian","Have luck, and sleep."
"Italian","Happy is the country which has no history."
"Italian","Good wine makes good blood."
"Italian","Good blood never lies."
"Italian","Good company on the road is the shortest of short cuts."
"Italian","Good is good, but better beats it."
"Italian","Good or bad we must all live."
"Italian","Good repute is like the cypress: once cut, it never puts forth leaf again."
"Italian","Good riding at two anchors men have told, For it one break, the other yet may hold."
"Italian","Good swimmers are drowned at last."
"Italian","Grief pent up will burst the heart."
"Italian","Good watch prevents misfortune."
"Italian","He dances well to whom fortune pipes."
"Italian","Good wine needs no bush."
"Italian","Gratitude is the memory of the heart."
"Italian","Grease to the wheels."
"Italian","He would break his neck against a straw."
"Italian","Great cry and little wool, as the man said who shaved the sow."
"Italian","Make me a prophet and I will make you rich."
"Italian","Great griefs are mute."
"Italian","Great smoke, little roast."
"Italian","Good ware was never dear."
"Italian","He preaches well who lives well."
"Italian","He cries out before he is hurt."
"Italian","He that by the plough would thrive, Himself must either hold or drive."
"Italian","He that buys the office of magistrate must of necessity sell justice."
"Italian","He that at twenty is not, at thirty knows not, and at forty has not, will never be, nor ever know, nor ever have."
"Italian","He takes out a nail and puts in a pin."
"Italian","He sets the wolf to guard the sheep."
"Italian","He sells the bird on the branch."
"Italian","He that flatters you more than you desire either has deceived you or wishes to deceive."
"Italian","He runs far who never turns."
"Italian","He that has a head of glass must not throw stones at another."
"Italian","He ought not to complain of the sea who returns to it a second time."
"Italian","He must stoop that has a low door."
"Italian","He measures others with his own yard."
"Italian","He may lie safely who comes from afar."
"Italian","He loves well who does not forget."
"Italian","He laughs well who laughs last."
"Italian","He knows where the devil has his tail."
"Italian","He knows where the devil carries his tail."
"Italian","He saith little that loveth much."
"Italian","He that is drunk is gone from home."
"Italian","He that never fails never grows rich."
"Italian","He that marries a widow with four children marries four thieves."
"Italian","He that makes himself dirt is trod on by the swine."
"Italian","He that keeps another man's dog shall have nothing left him but the line."
"Italian","He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life; but he that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction."
"Italian","He that jokes, confesses."
"Italian","He that is kinder than he was wont hath a design upon thee."
"Italian","He that exceeds his commission must answer for it at his own cost."
"Italian","He that is good for something is the ass of the public."
"Italian","He is wise who learns at another's cost."
"Italian","He that is drowning shouts though he be not heard."
"Italian","He that is busy is tempted but by one devil, he that is idle by a legion."
"Italian","He that is born to be hanged shall never be drowned."
"Italian","He that is always right is always wrong."
"Italian","He that is afraid of the devil does not grow rich."
"Italian","He that has time, has life."
"Italian","He that has swallowed the devil may swallow his horns."
"Italian","He that has but one pig easily fattens it."
"Italian","He that is in fault is in suspicion."
"Italian","He has done like the Perugian who, when his head was broken, ran home for his helmet."
"Italian","He is a sorry barber who has but one comb."
"Italian","He is a good dog who goes to church."
"Italian","He is a friend when you sneeze -- all he says is ""God bless you."""
"Italian","He is a fool who thinks that another does not think."
"Italian","He is a fool who loses the flight for the leap."
"Italian","He is a fool who does not know from what quarter the wind blows."
"Italian","He is a fool who boasts of four things: that he has good wine, a good horse, a handsome wife, and plenty of money."
"Italian","He knows well where the thorn pricks him."
"Italian","He has gained enough who gives up a vain hope."
"Italian","He is in no place who is everywhere."
"Italian","He hangs the May-branch at every door."
"Italian","He got out of the mud and fell into the river."
"Italian","He gives twice who gives in a trice."
"Italian","He gains much who loses a vain hope."
"Italian","He gains a great deal who loses a vain hope."
"Italian","He devil tempts all, but the idle man tempts the devil."
"Italian","He devil is not so ugly as he is painted."
"Italian","He that paints a flower does not give it perfume."
"Italian","He hauls at a long rope who expects another's death."
"Italian","He is not an honest man who has burned his tongue and does not tell the company that the soup is hot."
"Italian","He cries wine, and sells vinegar."
"Italian","He is well constituted who grieves not for what he has not, and rejoices for what he has."
"Italian","He is washing the crow."
"Italian","He is very blind who cannot see the sun."
"Italian","He is the world's master who despises it, its slave who prizes it."
"Italian","He is rich who owes nothing."
"Italian","He is rich enough who does not want."
"Italian","He is not poor that hath not much, but he that craves much."
"Italian","He is a very sorry barber who has but one comb."
"Italian","He is not free who drags his chain after him."
"Italian","He is happy that knows not himself to be otherwise."
"Italian","He is not a thorough wise man who cannot play the fool on occasion."
"Italian","He is not a good mason who refuses any stone."
"Italian","He is miserable once, who feels it; but twice, who fear it before it comes."
"Italian","He is miserable indeed that must lock up his miseries."
"Italian","He is master of another man's life who is indifferent to his own."
"Italian","He is like the anchor that is always in the sea, yet does not learn to swim."
"Italian","He is in search of a ram with five feet."
"Italian","He knocks boldly at the door who brings good news."
"Italian","He is not happy who knows it not."
"Italian","Look not out for dead men's shoes."
"Italian","Lip courtesy pleases much and costs little."
"Italian","Love is master of all arts."
"Italian","Love is blind but sees afar."
"Italian","Love is an excuse for its own faults."
"Italian","Love demands faith, and faith firmness."
"Italian","Love begins with song and music and ends in a sea of tears."
"Italian","Love and lordship like no fellowship."
"Italian","Love kills time and time kills love."
"Italian","Look with suspicion on the flight of an enemy."
"Italian","Love knows not labour."
"Italian","Look not a gift horse in the mouth."
"Italian","Look high and fall low."
"Italian","Look for the hog at the oak."
"Italian","Look before you leap."
"Italian","Long tongue, short hand."
"Italian","Live and learn."
"Italian","Little thieves are hanged by the neck, great ones by the purse."
"Italian","Lovers' purses are tied with cobwebs."
"Italian","Lookers-on see most of the game."
"Italian","Love, a cough, and smoke, are hard to hide."
"Italian","Many a one threatens and yet is afraid."
"Italian","Many a one leaves the roast who afterwards longs for the smoke of it."
"Italian","Make yourself honey and the flies will eat you."
"Italian","Make yourself a sheep and the wolf will eat you."
"Italian","Beware of a poor alchemist."
"Italian","Made thirthy, we should make thirty-one."
"Italian","Give a clown your finger he'll grasp your fist."
"Italian","Love is the true price at which love is bought."
"Italian","Love, should i escape your snares, i doubt that i can be trapped by any other means."
"Italian","Lilies are whitest in a blackmoor's hand."
"Italian","Love's merchandise is jealousy and broken faith."
"Italian","Love your friend with his faults."
"Italian","Love rules without rules."
"Italian","Love rules without law."
"Italian","Love rules his kingdom without a sword."
"Italian","Love me love my dog."
"Italian","Love me little and love me long."
"Italian","Love levels all inequalities."
"Italian","Lovers think others are blind."
"Italian","Large trees give more shade than fruit."
"Italian","Little children and headaches, great children and heartaches."
"Italian","Leave no nail unclenched."
"Italian","Learned fools are the greatest fools."
"Italian","Lay on more wood; ashes give money."
"Italian","Lay it on thick and some of it will stick."
"Italian","Lawyers' robes are lined with the obstinacy of suitors."
"Italian","Laws were made for rogues."
"Italian","Let every fox take care of his own tail."
"Italian","Lasses and glasses are always in danger."
"Italian","Let every one keep off the flies with his own tail."
"Italian","Knowledge has bitter roots but sweet fruits."
"Italian","Kin or no kin, woe to him who has nothing."
"Italian","Keeping from falling is better then helping up."
"Italian","Keep yourself from opportunities and God will keep you from sins."
"Italian","Keep company with good men, and you'll increase their number."
"Italian","Italy will take care of itself."
"Italian","It's the merry drizzle that makes grass grow fine."
"Italian","It's no time to play chess when the house is on fire."
"Italian","Laughter makes good blood."
"Italian","Let well alone."
"Italian","Likeness is the mother of love."
"Italian","Like will to like, as the devil said to the collier."
"Italian","Like well like bucket."
"Italian","Like saint like offering."
"Italian","Like master, like man."
"Italian","Like lips, like lettuce."
"Italian","Life is half spent before we know what it is."
"Italian","Lent, which seems so long, is short at other men's tables."
"Italian","Liars should have good memories."
"Italian","Many are called but few are chosen."
"Italian","Let us have florins and we shall find cousins."
"Italian","Let us first catch the bear and then sell its skin."
"Italian","Let the injurer not forget."
"Italian","Let not your tongue say what your head may pay for."
"Italian","Let not your shirt know all your thoughts."
"Italian","Let not you shirt know your secret."
"Italian","Let him who is well off stay where he is."
"Italian","Let him not be a lover who has not courage."
"Italian","Lies have short legs."
"Italian","Never let people see the bottom of your purse or of your mind."
"Italian","Many a true word in spoken in jest."
"Italian","Never spur a willing horse."
"Italian","Never speak of a rope in the house of one who was hanged."
"Italian","Never rub your eye but with your elbow."
"Italian","Never reveal the bottom of your purse or the depth of your mind."
"Italian","Never refuse a good offer."
"Italian","Never point out the mistakes of another with a dirty finger."
"Italian","Never was a mewing cat a good mouser."
"Italian","Never let the bottom of your purse or of your mind be seen."
"Italian","Nevertheless, it moves."
"Italian","Never judge a book by its cover."
"Italian","Never is a long time."
"Italian","Never heed the colour of a gift horse."
"Italian","Never do that by proxy which you can do yourself."
"Italian","Never do evil that good may come of it."
"Italian","Neither women nor linen by candlelight."
"Italian","Necessity is a great teacher."
"Italian","Necessity has no law."
"Italian","Never let the sun go down on your anger."
"Italian","No good thing is failure and no evil thing success."
"Italian","No one is bound to do impossibilities."
"Italian","No one ever saw a goat dead of hunger."
"Italian","No one ever repented of having held his tongue."
"Italian","No one ever kicks a dead dog."
"Italian","No one ever became poor through giving alms."
"Italian","No news is good news."
"Italian","No need to say ""trot"" to a good horse."
"Italian","Never want while your neighbor has it."
"Italian","No grass grows on a beaten road."
"Italian","Near the church far from God."
"Italian","No good lawyer ever goes to court himself."
"Italian","No good doctor ever takes physic."
"Italian","No flies get into a shut mouth."
"Italian","No day in which you learn something is a complete loss."
"Italian","No day but has its evening."
"Italian","No comforter's head ever aches."
"Italian","New lords, new laws."
"Italian","New brooms sweep clean."
"Italian","No meat ever remains in the shambles however bad it may be."
"Italian","Marry in haste, repent at leisure."
"Italian","Mills and wives are ever wanting."
"Italian","Men make wealth, and women preserve it."
"Italian","Men are as old as they fell, and women as they look."
"Italian","Men are as old as they feel, women as old as they look."
"Italian","Men after the modern fashion, and asses after the ancient."
"Italian","Measure three times and cut once."
"Italian","Masters' hints are commands."
"Italian","Necessity becomes will."
"Italian","Marry your son when you please, your daughter when you can."
"Italian","Misfortunes that can't be avoided must be sweetened."
"Italian","Marriages are not as they are made, but as they turn out."
"Italian","Many stop their noses at ambergris."
"Italian","Many scruple to spit in church, and afterwards defile the altar."
"Italian","Many return from the war who cannot give an account of the battle."
"Italian","Many pupils have gained more wealth than their masters."
"Italian","Many people can pack the cards; fewer can play the game."
"Italian","Many desire the tree who pretend to refuse the fruit."
"Italian","It's a free country."
"Italian","Marry your son when you will, your daughter when you can."
"Italian","Money is round, and rolls."
"Italian","Many are brave when the enemy flies."
"Italian","Near is my shirt, but nearer is my skin."
"Italian","Near is my petticoat but nearer is my smock."
"Italian","My No is as good as your Yes."
"Italian","Muddy water won't do for a mirror."
"Italian","Much water passes by the mill that the miller perceives not."
"Italian","Much smoke, and little roast."
"Italian","Mouth shut and eyes open."
"Italian","Misfortune does not always result in harm."
"Italian","More unlucky than dogs in church."
"Italian","Misfortunes never come single."
"Italian","Money is money's brother."
"Italian","Money is an epitome of human power."
"Italian","Money begets money."
"Italian","Money and friendship break the arms of justice."
"Italian","Moderation in all things."
"Italian","Moderate profits fill the purse."
"Italian","Misfortunes, when asleep, are not to be awakened."
"Italian","Necessity and opportunity may make a coward valiant."
"Italian","Mother-in-law and daughter-in-law, storm and hail."
"Italian","If it's not true, it's a good story."
"Italian","Ignorance is a voluntary misfortune."
"Italian","If the patient dies, the doctor has killed him, but if he gets well, the saints have saved him."
"Italian","If the hours are long enough and the pay is short enough, someone will say it's women's work."
"Italian","If the hen had not cackled, we should not know she had laid an egg."
"Italian","If the blind lead the blind, both fall into the ditch."
"Italian","If someone betrays you once, it's his fault. If he betrays you twice, it's your fault."
"Italian","If pride were an art, how many doctors we should have."
"Italian","If the sun shines on me I care not for the moon."
"Italian","If only I were a bird! Ah, but eating caterpillars? If someone betrays you once, it's his fault. If he betrays you twice, it's your fault."
"Italian","If the wife sins, the husband is not innocent."
"Italian","If it's not one thing, it's another."
"Italian","If it were not for the belly, the back might wear gold."
"Italian","If it were not for hope, the heart would break."
"Italian","If it walks like a duck, quacks like a duck, looks like a duck, it must be a duck."
"Italian","If it rained maccaroni, what a fine time for gluttons."
"Italian","If it rained macaroni, what a fine time for gluttons."
"Italian","If I went to sea I should find it dry."
"Italian","If I sleep, I sleep for myself; if I work, I know not for whom."
"Italian","If pride were a disease, how many would be already dead?"
"Italian","If you stumble more than once over the same stump, you have no one to blame but yourself."
"Italian","It's a very proud horse that will not carry his oats."
"Italian","If your head is wax, do not walk in the sun."
"Italian","If young men had wit and old men strength everything might be well done."
"Italian","If you would succeed, you must not be too good."
"Italian","If you would have your work ill done, pay beforehand."
"Italian","If you would be rich in a year, you may be hanged in six months."
"Italian","If you want to buy love, love itself is the price you'll have to pay."
"Italian","If the secret sorrows of everyone could be read on their forehead, how many who now cause envy would suddenly become the objects of pity."
"Italian","If you throw money away with your hands, you will seek it later with your feet."
"Italian","If a man deceives me once, shame on him; if he deceives me twice, shame on me."
"Italian","If you scatter thorns, don't go barefoot."
"Italian","If you let them put the calf on your shoulders, it will not be long before they clap on the cow."
"Italian","If you have a good cellar at home don't go drinking at the tavern."
"Italian","If you dig a pit for others, you might fall into it yourself."
"Italian","If you can't bite, don't show your teeth."
"Italian","If you are determined -- just do it."
"Italian","If you are a mouse don't follow frogs."
"Italian","If the young man knew, if the old man could, there is nothing but would be done."
"Italian","If you want the daughter, you must kiss the mother."
"Italian","Hear the other side, and believe little."
"Italian","Home, dear home, small as thou art, to me thou art a palace."
"Italian","High birth is a poor dish on the table."
"Italian","Hide not the truth from your confessor, your doctor, or your lawyer."
"Italian","Help you to salt. help you to sorrow."
"Italian","Hell is crowded with ungrateful wretches."
"Italian","Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned."
"Italian","Hell and Chancery are always open."
"Italian","If I have lost the ring I still have the fingers."
"Italian","Hear, see, and say nothing if you would live in peace."
"Italian","Honours change manners."
"Italian","Health without money is a half-malady."
"Italian","He's an ill cook that cannot lick his own fingers."
"Italian","He's a wise man that leads passion by the bridle."
"Italian","He's a friend at sneezing-time--the most that can be got from him is a ""God bless you."""
"Italian","He would slaughter a bug to drink its blood."
"Italian","He would skin a flint."
"Italian","He would sell even his share of the sun."
"Italian","He would not give the devil a knife to cut his throat."
"Italian","Hedges have no eyes, but they have ears."
"Italian","Hunger transmutes beans into almonds."
"Italian","Ill in kine and worse in beeves."
"Italian","If a fox is preaching, then beware of your geese."
"Italian","I will do what I can, and a little less, to be able to continue at it."
"Italian","I too can lead the geese to water when it rains."
"Italian","I speak to you, daughter; hear it daughter-in-law."
"Italian","I saw you at Lucca, I knew you at Pisa."
"Italian","I protect myself from my enemies; may God protect me from my friends."
"Italian","I might have lost my ring, but I still have my fingers."
"Italian","Homer sometimes nods."
"Italian","I being satisfied, the world is satisfied."
"Italian","Honest men marry soon, wise men never."
"Italian","Hunger makes hard beans sweet."
"Italian","Hunger is the best sauce."
"Italian","Hunger drives the wolf out of the wood."
"Italian","How can the cat help it if the maid be a fool?"
"Italian","Hour by hour time departs."
"Italian","Hope is the last to abandon the unhappy."
"Italian","Hope is the last thing ever lost."
"Italian","If every man would sweep before his own door, the city would soon be clean."
"Italian","I may have lost the ring, but I still have the fingers."
"Italian","It is good to hold the clothes of one who is swimming."
"Italian","If youth but knew and age but could do."
"Italian","It is not enough to aim.; you must hit."
"Italian","It is not enough to aim, you must hit."
"Italian","It is not easy to steal in thieves' houses."
"Italian","It is not easy to show the way to a blind man."
"Italian","It is not by saying, 'honey, honey,' that sweetness comes into the mouth."
"Italian","It is no use crying over spilt milk."
"Italian","It is not every flower that smells sweet."
"Italian","It is in vain to lay a net in sight of the birds."
"Italian","It is not for the blind to give an opinion on colors."
"Italian","It is good to have friends everywhere."
"Italian","It is good to buy when another wants to sell."
"Italian","It is good living under the shadow of the belfry."
"Italian","It is easy to threaten a bull from a window."
"Italian","It is easy to preach fasting with a fully belly."
"Italian","It is easy to give advice when all goes well."
"Italian","It is easy to frighten the bull from the window."
"Italian","It is easy to find a stick to beat a dog."
"Italian","It is no time to play chess when the house is on fire."
"Italian","It is too late to come with water when the house is burnt down."
"Italian","He would drown in a spoonful of water."
"Italian","It's a foolish sheep that makes the wolf its confessor."
"Italian","It's a bad plan that cannot be changed."
"Italian","It's a bad mouthful that chokes."
"Italian","It takes four living men to carry one dead man out of a house."
"Italian","It never thunders but it rains."
"Italian","It may be quieter to sleep alone, but not warmer."
"Italian","It is not enough to know how to steal, one must know also how to conceal."
"Italian","It is truth that makes a many angry."
"Italian","It is better to ride a donkey that carries you than a horse that throws you."
"Italian","It is the small expenses that empty your purse."
"Italian","It is the petty expenses that empty the purse."
"Italian","It is the first shower that wets."
"Italian","It is the blood of the soldier that makes the general great."
"Italian","It is not the long day, but the heart that does the work."
"Italian","It is not spring until you can plant your foot upon twelve daisies."
"Italian","It is not necessary to fish up every bucket that falls into the well."
"Italian","It is not honour for an eagle to vanquish a dove."
"Italian","It is vain to fish if the hook is not baited."
"Italian","In a world of blind people, a one-eyed man is king."
"Italian","In wine there is truth."
"Italian","In war time there is pay for every horse."
"Italian","In the war of love who flies conquers."
"Italian","In the fray the weak are strong."
"Italian","In the country of the blind the one eyed man is king."
"Italian","In the country of the blind blessed is he that hath one eye."
"Italian","In prosperity no altars smoke."
"Italian","It is easy robbing when the dog is quieted."
"Italian","In at one ear and out at the other."
"Italian","Into the mouth of a wolf."
"Italian","In a thousand pounds of law there is not one ounce of love."
"Italian","In a golden sheath a leaden knife."
"Italian","Imagination gallops, judgment merely walks."
"Italian","Illness tells us what we are."
"Italian","Ill weeds grow apace."
"Italian","Ill news travels fast."
"Italian","Ill news comes apace."
"Italian","Ill luck comes by pounds and goes away by ounces."
"Italian","In men every mortal sin is venial, in women every venial sin is mortal."
"Italian","It is all one whether you die of sickness or of love."
"Italian","It's a good answer that knows when to stop."
"Italian","It is better to lose the saddle than the horse."
"Italian","It is better to leave than to lack."
"Italian","It is better to irritate a dog than an old woman."
"Italian","It is better to hear the nightingale sing than the mouse gnaw."
"Italian","It is better to have a husband without love than jealous."
"Italian","It is better to give away the wool than the sheep."
"Italian","It is better to be a beggar than a fool."
"Italian","Injurious is the gift that takes away freedom."
"Italian","It is always good to have two strings to your bow."
"Italian","Injury is to be measured by malice."
"Italian","It is a sorry house where the hens crow and the cock is silent."
"Italian","It is a good horse that never stumbles, And a good wife that never grumbles."
"Italian","It is a good file that cuts iron without making a noise."
"Italian","It is a good answer which knows when to stop."
"Italian","It is a bad thing to be poor, and seem poor."
"Italian","It is a bad thing to be a knave, but worse to be known for one."
"Italian","It is a bad game where nobody wins."
"Italian","It is better to wear out one's shoes than one's sheets."
"Italian","No sooner is the law made than its evasion is discovered."
"Italian","A place for everything, and everything in its place."
"Italian","A misfortune and a friar seldom go alone."
"Italian","A runaway horse punishes himself."
"Italian","A rotting fish begins to stink at the head."
"Italian","A rakish bachelor makes a jealous husband."
"Italian","A rainy morn oft brings a pleasant day."
"Italian","A ragged sack holds no grain, a poor man is not taken into counsel."
"Italian","A ragged coat finds little credit."
"Italian","A saddle fits more backs than one."
"Italian","A priest is a man who is called Father by everyone except his own children who are obliged to call him Uncle."
"Italian","A sailor must have his eye trained to the rocks and sands as well as the north star."
"Italian","A pitcher that goes oft to the well is broken at last."
"Italian","A pear will never fall into a closed mouth."
"Italian","A new net won't catch an old bird."
"Italian","A new broom is good for three days."
"Italian","A near neighbour is better than a distant cousin."
"Italian","A mule that thinks he is a stag discovers his mistake when he comes to leap over the ditch."
"Italian","A muffled cat is no good mouser."
"Italian","A thorn has a small point, but the person who feels it does not forget its sting."
"Italian","A proud pauper and a rich miser are contemptible beings."
"Italian","A slothful man never has time."
"Italian","Beware of one who has nothing to lose."
"Italian","A thing done has a head."
"Italian","A tender-hearted mother makes a scabby daughter."
"Italian","A stout heart overcomes ill fortune."
"Italian","A stick is soon found to beat a dog."
"Italian","A starved town is soon forced to surrender."
"Italian","A solitary man is either a brute or an angel."
"Italian","A sack was never so full but that it would hold another grain."
"Italian","A small woman always seems newly married."
"Italian","A mischievous dog must be tied short."
"Italian","A sin confessed is half forgiven."
"Italian","A sin concealed is half forgiven."
"Italian","A shut mouth catches no flies."
"Italian","A short tail won't keep off flies."
"Italian","A sheep's bite is never more than skip deep."
"Italian","A secret imparted is no longer a secret."
"Italian","A scorpion never stung me but I cured myself with its grease."
"Italian","A scalded dog thinks cold water hot."
"Italian","A solitary man is either a beast or an angel."
"Italian","A kitchen dog never was good for the chase."
"Italian","A mouse will scare a thief."
"Italian","A little stone overturns a great cart."
"Italian","A little spark kindles a great fire."
"Italian","A little man often casts a long shadow."
"Italian","A little man often cast a long shadow."
"Italian","A little gall make a great deal of honey bitter."
"Italian","A liar is sooner caught than a cripple."
"Italian","A little truth helps the lie go down."
"Italian","A lawsuit is a fruit-tree planted in a lawyer's garden."
"Italian","A little truth makes the whole lie pass."
"Italian","A kiss without a moustache is like beef without mustard."
"Italian","A jade eats as much as a good horse."
"Italian","A hungry dog does not fear the stick."
"Italian","A hungry belly has no ears."
"Italian","A hungry ass eats any straw."
"Italian","A hundred-year-old revenge still has its baby teeth."
"Italian","A hundred years cannot repair a moment's loss of honour."
"Italian","A hundred wagon loads of thoughts will not pay a single ounce of debt."
"Italian","A lean horse does not kick."
"Italian","A man should learn to sail in all winds."
"Italian","A mill cannot grind with the water that is past."
"Italian","A mill and a wife are always in want of something."
"Italian","A mild sheep is suck by every lamb."
"Italian","A meal without wine is like a day without sunshine."
"Italian","A married man is a caged bird."
"Italian","A market is three women and a goose."
"Italian","A man's own opinion is never wrong."
"Italian","A little stream drives a great mill."
"Italian","A man warned is as good as two."
"Italian","A thousand probabilities do not make one truth."
"Italian","A man shall learn to sail in all winds."
"Italian","A man of words and not of deeds Is like a garden full of weeds."
"Italian","A man of straw needs a woman of gold."
"Italian","A mad parish, a mad priest."
"Italian","A loving man, a jealous man."
"Italian","A lover's anger is short-lived."
"Italian","A living dog is been than a dead lion."
"Italian","A living ass is better than a dead doctor."
"Italian","A man was hanged for saying what was true."
"Italian","All the honey a bee gathers during its lifetime doesn't sweeten its sting."
"Italian","All saint without, all devil within."
"Italian","Among thorns grow roses."
"Italian","Among men of honour a word is a bond."
"Italian","Although the sun shines, leave not your cloak at home."
"Italian","All's well that ends well."
"Italian","All water runs to the sea."
"Italian","All things are difficult before they are easy."
"Italian","An ass's tail will not make a sieve."
"Italian","All the keys do not hang at one girdle."
"Italian","An ass's trot does not last long."
"Italian","All the flowers of tomorrow are in the seeds of yesterday."
"Italian","All the fingers are not alike."
"Italian","All the brains are not in one head."
"Italian","All that's fair must fade."
"Italian","All tastes are tastes."
"Italian","All ships leak: some amidships, some in the bows, some in the hold."
"Italian","All ships leak: some amidships, some in the bows, some in the hold."
"Italian","A thing is never much talked of but there is some truth in it."
"Italian","All the sheep are not for the wolf."
"Italian","An old ox makes a straight furrow."
"Italian","Any plan is bad that cannot be changed."
"Italian","Any man can be a father, but it takes a special person to be a dad."
"Italian","Any excuse is good if it hold good."
"Italian","Anger increases love."
"Italian","Anger can be an expensive luxury."
"Italian","An unasked for excuse infers transgression."
"Italian","An ounce of discretion is better than a pound of knowledge."
"Italian","An ambassador beareth no blame."
"Italian","An old poacher makes the best gamekeeper."
"Italian","All roads lead to Rome."
"Italian","An old horse for a young soldier."
"Italian","An old flag is an honour to its captain."
"Italian","An old dog will learn no tricks."
"Italian","An old dog does not grow used to the collar."
"Italian","An old dog does not bark for nothing."
"Italian","An idle man is the devil's bolster."
"Italian","An empty sack will not stand upright."
"Italian","An eagle will not catch flies."
"Italian","An old quarrel is easily renewed."
"Italian","A white wall is the fool's paper."
"Italian","All saints do not work miracles."
"Italian","A woman who loves to be at the window is like a bunch of grapes on the wayside."
"Italian","A woman who cries, a man who swears, a horse that sweats, all imposture."
"Italian","A wise person sometimes changes his mind, but a fool never does."
"Italian","A wise man does at first what a fool must do at last."
"Italian","A wise man cares not for what he cannot have."
"Italian","A wise man cares not for that which he cannot have."
"Italian","A woman's in pain, a woman's in woe, a woman is ill, when she likes to be so."
"Italian","A wicked man's gift has a touch of his master."
"Italian","A woman's place is in the home."
"Italian","A waiting appetite kindles many a spite."
"Italian","A volunteer is worth twenty pressed men."
"Italian","A voluntary burthen is no burthen."
"Italian","A vagabond monk never spoke well of his convent."
"Italian","A true friend, is one that will take a bullet for you in the war."
"Italian","A tree often transplanted is never loaded with fruit."
"Italian","A traveler may lie with authority."
"Italian","A threatened buffet is never well given."
"Italian","A wise man and a fool together, know more than a wise man alone."
"Italian","After shaving there is nothing to shear."
"Italian","All is not gold that glitters."
"Italian","All is not butter that comes from the cow."
"Italian","All in good time."
"Italian","All are not saints who go to church."
"Italian","All are brave when the enemy flies."
"Italian","Agree between yourselves, quoth Arlotto, and I will make it rain."
"Italian","After the storm ends, the sun will shine."
"Italian","A woman's answer is never to seek."
"Italian","After the game, the king and the pawn go into the same box."
"Italian","A hidden sin is half forgiven."
"Italian","After one pope another is made."
"Italian","Adam must have an Eve to blame for his faults."
"Italian","Absence is the enemy of love."
"Italian","Absence is a foe to love; out of sight out of mind."
"Italian","Absence is a foe to love; away from the eyes, away from the heart."
"Italian","Abandon all hope, ye who enter here."
"Italian","A wound foreseen paint the less."
"Italian","A word to the wise is enough."
"Italian","After the ship has sunk, everyone knows how she might have been saved."
"Italian","One bird in hand is better far Than two that in the bushes are."
"Italian","Old wine and friends improve with age."
"Italian","One door never shuts but another opens."
"Italian","One devil knows another."
"Italian","One devil drives out another."
"Italian","One devil does not make hell."
"Italian","One daughter helps to marry the other."
"Italian","One cannot drink and whistle at the same time."
"Italian","One enemy is too much for a man, and a hundred friends too few."
"Italian","One briar does not make a hedge."
"Italian","One enemy is too much, and a hundred friends are not enough."
"Italian","One bell serves a parish."
"Italian","One basket of grapes does not make a vintage."
"Italian","Once the game is over, the king and the pawn go back into the same box."
"Italian","Once the game is over, the king and the pawn go back into the same box."
"Italian","Once resolved, the trouble is over."
"Italian","On every small pretext the wolf seizes the sheep."
"Italian","On a long journey even a straw is heavy."
"Italian","A horse grown fat kicks."
"Italian","One can't enter Paradise in spite of the saints."
"Italian","One is never too old to yearn."
"Italian","A barking dog never bites."
"Italian","A barking cur does not bite."
"Italian","A bad agreement is better than a good lawsuit."
"Italian","'Tis good feasting in other men's houses."
"Italian","'Tis a silly sheep that confesses to the wolf."
"Italian","Yes and ""no"" govern the world."
"Italian","They say so, is half a lie."
"Italian","One enemy is too many, and a hundred friends are too few."
"Italian","No one likes justice brought home to his own door."
"Italian","Old thanks cannot be used for new gifts."
"Italian","One hand washes the other, and both the face."
"Italian","One good word quenches more heat than a bucket of water."
"Italian","One good morsel and a hundred vexations."
"Italian","One fool is enough in a house."
"Italian","One flower does not make a garland."
"Italian","One flea does not hinder sleep."
"Italian","One eye of the master sees more than four eyes of his servants."
"Italian","One Englishman can beat three Frenchmen."
"Italian","It is better to be condemned by many doctors than by one judge."
"Italian","Not every word requires an answer."
"Italian","On a fool's beard the barber learns to shave."
"Italian","Nothing improves the taste of pasta more than a good appetite."
"Italian","Nothing dries quicker than tears."
"Italian","Nothing dries faster than tears."
"Italian","Nothing can come out of a sack but what is in it."
"Italian","Not having enough is like not having anything."
"Italian","Not everything, which is bad, comes to hurt us."
"Italian","Nothing is ever well done in a hurry, except flying from the plague or from quarrels, and catching fleas."
"Italian","Not everything that is bad comes to hurt us."
"Italian","Nothing is ill said if it is not ill taken."
"Italian","Not every truth is good to be told."
"Italian","Not even hercules could contend against two."
"Italian","Not all words require an answer."
"Italian","Not all that shakes falls."
"Italian","Not all are asleep who have their eyes shut."
"Italian","None so deaf as he that will not hear."
"Italian","No wonder lasts more than three days."
"Italian","No woman ever speaks the naked truth."
"Italian","Not everything, which is bad, comes to hurt us."
"Italian","Of two cowards, the one who finds the other out first has the advantage."
"Italian","Old thanks are not for new gifts."
"Italian","Old saints don't get incense anymore."
"Italian","Old reckonings, new disputes."
"Italian","Old hens make good broth."
"Italian","Old friends are always new."
"Italian","Old birds are not caught with new nets."
"Italian","Often he who does too much does too little."
"Italian","Nothing is difficult to a willing mind."
"Italian","Of two evils choose the less."
"Italian","A beetle is a beauty in the eyes of his mother."
"Italian","Of three things the devil makes a salad: advocate's tongues, notaries' fingers, and a third that shall be nameless."
"Italian","Of this world each man has as much as he takes."
"Italian","Of the wealth of the world each has as much as they take."
"Italian","Of the great and of the dead either speak will or say nothing."
"Italian","Of judgment every one has a stock on hand for sale."
"Italian","Nothing venture, nothing have."
"Italian","Nothing that is violent is permanent."
"Italian","Nothing passes between asses but kicks."
"Italian","Of what does not concern you say nothing, good or bad."
"Italian","A gift long expected is sold, not given."
"Italian","A beard well lathered is half shaved."
"Italian","A good anvil does not fear the hammer."
"Italian","A golden cage does not feed the bird."
"Italian","A golden bit makes none the better horse."
"Italian","A gold ring does not cure a felon."
"Italian","A gold key opens every door."
"Italian","A goaded ass must trot."
"Italian","A good appetite does not want sauce."
"Italian","A gift long waited for is sold, not given."
"Italian","A good beginning makes a good ending."
"Italian","A gift delayed, and long expected, is not given, but sold dear."
"Italian","A full sack pricks up its ear."
"Italian","A friend, and look to thyself."
"Italian","A friend is not known till he is lost."
"Italian","A forced kindness deserves no thanks."
"Italian","A fools knows his own business better than a wise man knows that of others."
"Italian","A fool's spark glows in all men."
"Italian","A fool throws a stone into a well, and it requires a hundred wise men to get it out again."
"Italian","A gift with a kind countenance is a double present."
"Italian","A greased mouth cannot say no."
"Italian","Any water will put out fire."
"Italian","A heavy shower is soon over."
"Italian","A hard beginning maketh a good ending."
"Italian","A happy heart is better than a full purse."
"Italian","A hair of the dog cures the bite."
"Italian","A guest and a fish stink in three days."
"Italian","A great man will not trample on a worm, nor sneak to an emperor."
"Italian","A good anvil fears no hammer."
"Italian","A great church and little devotion."
"Italian","A fool finds no pleasure in understanding but delights in airing his own opinions."
"Italian","A good thing lost is valued."
"Italian","A good paymaster does not hesitate to give good security."
"Italian","A good mother is worth a hundred teachers."
"Italian","A good lawyer makes a bad neighbor."
"Italian","A good horse never lacks a saddle."
"Italian","A good horse cannot be of a bad color."
"Italian","A good horse and a bad horse need the spur; a good woman and a bad woman need the stick."
"Italian","A good cavalier never lacks a lance."
"Italian","A great liar has need of good memory."
"Italian","A burden that one chooses is not felt."
"Italian","A cloak is not made for a single shower of rain."
"Italian","A clear bargain, a dear friend."
"Italian","A cat that licks the spit is not to be trusted with roast meat."
"Italian","A cat pent up becomes a lion."
"Italian","A cask of wine works more miracles than a church full of saints."
"Italian","A candle loses nothing by lighting another candle."
"Italian","A calm portends a storm."
"Italian","A fool gives full vent to his anger, but a wise man keeps himself under control."
"Italian","A burden which one chooses is not felt."
"Italian","A crown is no cure for the headache."
"Italian","A braying ass eats little hay."
"Italian","A bow that is bent too far will break."
"Italian","A book whose sale's forbidden all men rush to see, and prohibition turns one reader into three."
"Italian","A book whos sale's forbidden all men rush to see, and prohibition turns one reader into three."
"Italian","A blind man is not judge of colours."
"Italian","A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush."
"Italian","A bird in the cage is worth a hundred at large."
"Italian","A horse falls though he has four legs."
"Italian","A cage made of gold does not feed the bird inside of it."
"Italian","A drop of water breaks a stone."
"Italian","A beautiful woman smiling, bespeaks a purse weeping."
"Italian","A fool carveth a piece of his heart to every one that sits near him."
"Italian","A fool can ask more questions than seven wise men can answer."
"Italian","A fine shot never killed a bird."
"Italian","A favor to come is better than a hundred received."
"Italian","A fat kitchen, a lean testament."
"Italian","A fat kitchen is next door to poverty."
"Italian","A farthing saved is twice earned."
"Italian","A closed mouth catches no flies."
"Italian","A drowning man would catch at razors."
"Italian","A cracked pot never fell off the hook."
"Italian","A donkey cannot trot for long."
"Italian","A dog that bites silently."
"Italian","A dog never bit me but I had some of his hair."
"Italian","A dog is never offended at being pelted with bones."
"Italian","A doctor and a clown know more than a doctor alone."
"Italian","A dead man does not make war."
"Italian","A cur's tail grows fast."
"Italian","A fool finds pleasure in evil conduct, but a man of understanding delights in wisdom."
"Italian","A drunk man's words are a sober man's thoughts."
"Italian","Every ditch is full of your after-wits."
"Italian","Even the sea. great as it is, grows calm."
"Italian","Every glowworm is not a fire."
"Italian","Every fox likes a henroost."
"Italian","Every fool wants to give advice."
"Italian","Every fool is wise when he holds his tongue."
"Italian","Every excuse is good, if it works."
"Italian","Every door may be shut but death's door."
"Italian","Every man has a fool in his sleeve."
"Italian","Every dog is a lion at home."
"Italian","Every man has a good wife and a bad trade."
"Italian","Every ditch is full of after-wit."
"Italian","Every day is not a holiday."
"Italian","Every day has it night."
"Italian","Every bird thinks its own nest beautiful."
"Italian","Ever homer sometimes nods."
"Italian","Ever drunk, ever dry."
"Italian","Evening red and morning grey help the traveler on his way; evening grey and morning red bring down rain upon his head."
"Italian","Don't cross the water unless you see the bottom."
"Italian","Every dog is allowed one bite."
"Italian","Every one gives himself credit for more brains than he has, and less money."
"Italian","Every promise is a debt."
"Italian","Every potter praises his pot, and most of all the one that is cracked."
"Italian","Every one to his own calling, and the ox to the plough."
"Italian","Every one thinks himself without sin because he has not those of others."
"Italian","Every one thinks he has more than his share of brains."
"Italian","Every one praises his own saint."
"Italian","Every one likes justice in another's house, none in his own."
"Italian","Every hill has its valley."
"Italian","Every one goes with his own sack to the mill."
"Italian","Even the just has need of help."
"Italian","Every one for himself, and God for us all."
"Italian","Every one finds fault with his own trade."
"Italian","Every one draws the water to his own mill."
"Italian","Every one can navigate in fine weather."
"Italian","Every monkey will have his gambols."
"Italian","Every miller draws the water to his own mill."
"Italian","Every medal has its reverse."
"Italian","Every man is nearest himself."
"Italian","Every one knows best where the shoe pinches him."
"Italian","Don't put too tight a ring on your finger."
"Italian","Even woods have ears."
"Italian","Drop the jest when it is most amusing."
"Italian","Drop by drop wears away the stone."
"Italian","Drink wine and let water go to the mill."
"Italian","Drink water like an ox, wine like the king of Spain."
"Italian","Dress up a stick and it does not appear to be a stick."
"Italian","Don't sell the bearskin before you have caught the bear."
"Italian","Eaten bread is soon forgotten."
"Italian","Don't reckon your eggs before they are laid."
"Italian","Eating and drinking Shouldn't keep us from thinking."
"Italian","Don't play with the bear if you don't want to be bit."
"Italian","Don't mention the cross to the devil."
"Italian","Don't look a gift horse in the mouth."
"Italian","Don't let the peasant know how good the cheese with the pears is."
"Italian","Don't judge a horse by its harness."
"Italian","Don't go a-fishing to a famous stream."
"Italian","Don't even take a bath with fools, because they'll throw away the soap."
"Italian","Any port in a storm."
"Italian","Don't reject the good together with the bad."
"Italian","Even a fool is thought wise if he keeps silent, and discerning if he holds his tongue."
"Italian","Even the fool says a wise word sometimes."
"Italian","Even the dog gets bread by wagging his tail."
"Italian","Even old foxes are caught in the snare."
"Italian","Even foxes are caught."
"Italian","Even counted sheep are eaten by the wolf."
"Italian","Even an ass will not fall twice in the same quicksand."
"Italian","Even among the apostles there was a Judas."
"Italian","Eat and drink with your relatives, but do business with strangers."
"Italian","Even a frog would bite if it had teeth."
"Italian","Every saint has his festival."
"Italian","Even a fly has its spleen."
"Italian","Even a fly has its anger."
"Italian","Error is no payment."
"Italian","Entreat the churl and the bargain is broken off."
"Italian","Enough is enough, and too much spoils."
"Italian","Empty vessels make most noise."
"Italian","Eggs have no business dancing with stones."
"Italian","Eating teaches drinking."
"Italian","Even a horse, though he has four feet, stumbles."
"Italian","For a wife and a horse go to your neighbour."
"Italian","Every reed will not make a pipe."
"Italian","Fortune, and go to sleep."
"Italian","Fortune helps fools."
"Italian","Fortune comes to him who strives for it."
"Italian","Forbidden fruit is sweetest."
"Italian","For the flying enemy a golden bridge."
"Italian","For the buyer a hundred eyes are too few, for the seller one is enough."
"Italian","Four eyes see more than two."
"Italian","For an honest man half his wits are enough; the whole is too little for a knave."
"Italian","Friar Modest never was a prior."
"Italian","For a web begun God sends thread."
"Italian","Fools live poor to die rich."
"Italian","Fools grow without watering."
"Italian","Fools give parties, sensible people go to them."
"Italian","Foolish boys, wise men."
"Italian","Flies flock to the lean horse."
"Italian","Flies don't light on a boiling pot."
"Italian","Fire is not quenched with fire."
"Italian","For extreme ills extreme remedies."
"Italian","From a bad paymaster take straw--i.e. any trifle."
"Italian","Get a name to rise early, and you may lie all day."
"Italian","Get a good name and go to sleep."
"Italian","From those I trust God guard me, from those I mistrust I will guard myself."
"Italian","From the same flower the bee extracts honey and the wasp gall."
"Italian","From still water God keep me; from running water I will keep myself."
"Italian","From snow whether cooked or pounded you will get nothing but water."
"Italian","From shirtsleeves to shirtsleeves in three generations."
"Italian","Fortunes, heaven-born gifts."
"Italian","From listening comes wisdom, and from speaking repentance."
"Italian","Feed a cold and starve a fever."
"Italian","Frightened at bugbears."
"Italian","Friendships are cheap when they can be brought by doffing the hat."
"Italian","Friendship should be unpicked, not rent."
"Italian","Friends tie their purses with a spider's web."
"Italian","Friends may meet, but mountains never greet."
"Italian","Friends in need are friends indeed."
"Italian","Friends are like fiddle-strings; they must not be screwed too tight."
"Italian","Friends are known in time of need."
"Italian","From saying to doing is a long way."
"Italian","Everybody's friend, nobody's friend."
"Italian","Everything new is beautiful."
"Italian","Everything must have a beginning."
"Italian","Everything may be repaired except the neckbone."
"Italian","Everything may be borne except good fortune."
"Italian","Everything is of every year."
"Italian","Everything is good in its season."
"Italian","Everything is good for something."
"Italian","Fire drives the wasp out of its nest."
"Italian","Everyone loves justice in the affairs of another."
"Italian","Evil does are evil dreaders."
"Italian","Every wind does not shake down the nut."
"Italian","Every vine must have its stake."
"Italian","Every truth is not good to be told."
"Italian","Every time the sheep bleats it loseth a mouthful."
"Italian","Every time history repeats itself the price goes up."
"Italian","Every ten years one man has need of another."
"Italian","Every shop has its trick."
"Italian","Don't break your shins on your neighbors' pots."
"Italian","Everyone thinks his own cross is heaviest."
"Italian","Faint heart never won fair lady."
"Italian","Every rose has its thorn."
"Italian","February fill dyke, be it black or be it white."
"Italian","Feather by feather the goose is plucked."
"Italian","Fear guards the vineyard."
"Italian","Fat head, less brains."
"Italian","Far from the eyes, far from the heart."
"Italian","Faith in a lord, a cap for the fool."
"Italian","Fair words, but look to your purse."
"Italian","Evil be to him who evil thinks."
"Italian","Fair promises bind fools."
"Italian","Evil communications corrupt good manners."
"Italian","Failures are but mileposts on the road to success."
"Italian","Facts are male, words are female."
"Italian","Extravagant offers are a kind of denial."
"Italian","Experience without learning is better than learning without experience."
"Italian","Experience runs a valuable school, but fools learn in no other."
"Italian","Experience is what you get when you didn't get what you wanted."
"Italian","Experience is more important than theory."
"Italian","Fine words don't feed cats."
"Italian","Fair words won't feed a cat."
"Italian","Better a mouse in the pot than no stew at all."
"Italian","Beauty and folly are often companions."
"Italian","Better be the head of a lizard than the tail of a dragon."
"Italian","Better be the head of a cat than the tail of a lion."
"Italian","Better be envied than pitied."
"Italian","Better be a bird of the wood than a bird in the cage."
"Italian","Better aught than nought."
"Italian","Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow."
"Italian","Better gain in mud than lose in gold."
"Italian","Better a near neighbour than a distant cousin."
"Italian","Better give a penny than lend twenty."
"Italian","Better a living donkey than a dead doctor."
"Italian","Better a lean agreement than a fat sentence."
"Italian","Bend the tree while it is young."
"Italian","Below the navel there is neither religion nor truth."
"Italian","Believe a boaster as you would a liar."
"Italian","Bed is the poor man's opera."
"Italian","Because of a period, Martin lost his post."
"Italian","Don't cry fried fish before they are caught."
"Italian","Better alone than in bad company."
"Italian","Better no law than laws not enforced."
"Italian","Better to lose the wool than the sheep."
"Italian","Better to live well than long."
"Italian","Better to fall from the window than the roof."
"Italian","Better to ask than to go astray."
"Italian","Better to ask than go astray."
"Italian","Better slip with the foot than with the tongue."
"Italian","Better one true friend than a hundred relatives."
"Italian","Better bend than break."
"Italian","Better once than never."
"Italian","Beat the rogue and he will be your friend."
"Italian","Better lose the saddle than the horse."
"Italian","Better late than never."
"Italian","Better is an enemy to well."
"Italian","Better have one bee than a host of flies."
"Italian","Better have an egg to-day than a hen to-morrow."
"Italian","Better give the wool than the sheep."
"Italian","Better give than not to have to give."
"Italian","Better give a penny then lend twenty."
"Italian","Better one day as a lion than a hundred as a sheep."
"Italian","As is the lover so is the beloved."
"Italian","Beauty and folly are old companions."
"Italian","Associate with the good and you will be one of them."
"Italian","Asking costs little."
"Italian","Ask which was born first, the hen or the egg."
"Italian","Ask my companion if I be a thief."
"Italian","Ask my chum if I am a thief."
"Italian","As you would have a daughter so choose a wife."
"Italian","At a dangerous passage yield precedence."
"Italian","As soon as a new law is made, a way around it is devised."
"Italian","At a good bargain pause and ponder."
"Italian","As demure as an old whore at a christening."
"Italian","As both a good horse and a bad horse heed the spur, so both a good woman and a bad woman need the stick."
"Italian","Arms carry peace."
"Italian","Argus at home, a mole abroad."
"Italian","Applaud the man who cheats a cheater."
"Italian","Appetite comes in eating."
"Italian","Anyone who is satisfied to stand still should not complain when others pass him."
"Italian","Gifts are often losses."
"Italian","As the snow melts the filth shows through."
"Italian","At the end of the game, the pawn and the king go back in the same box."
"Italian","Beat the churl and he will be your friend."
"Italian","Be the same thing that ye wa'd be ca'd."
"Italian","Be the horse good or bad always wear your spurs."
"Italian","Be sure before you marry of a house wherein to tarry."
"Italian","Bad news is the first to come."
"Italian","Bad is the wool that cannot be died."
"Italian","Bad is the sack that will not bear patching."
"Italian","Assurance is two-thirds success."
"Italian","At the end of the work you may judge of the workmen."
"Italian","Between saying and doing, many a pair of shoes is worn out."
"Italian","At the end of the game you'll see who's the winner."
"Italian","At the end of the game we see who wins."
"Italian","At table bashfulness is out of place."
"Italian","At last the foxes all meet at the furrier's."
"Italian","At an open chest the righteous sins."
"Italian","At a round table there is no dispute about place."
"Italian","At a great river be the last to pass."
"Italian","At a great pennyworth pause awhile."
"Italian","Bad grass does not make good hay."
"Italian","Crimes may be secret, yet not secure."
"Italian","Better to ride an ass that carries me than a horse that throws me."
"Italian","Dearth foreseen never came."
"Italian","Cut off the dog's tail, he remains a dog."
"Italian","Curses are like processions: they return to whence they set out."
"Italian","Cunning men's cloaks sometimes fall."
"Italian","Crows weep for the dead lamb then devour him."
"Italian","Crooked by nature is never made straight by education."
"Italian","Delays are dangerous."
"Italian","Criminals are punished, that others may be amended."
"Italian","Deliberate before you act."
"Italian","Credit lost is like a broken looking-glass."
"Italian","Credit is dead, bad pay killed it."
"Italian","Cowards' weapons neither cut nor pierce."
"Italian","Counsel is nothing against love."
"Italian","Corsairs against corsairs, there is nothing to win but empty barrels."
"Italian","Consolation, for the condemned, is to be one of many."
"Italian","Conscience makes cowards of us all."
"Italian","Conscience is the chamber of justice."
"Italian","Criticizing another's garden doesn't keep the weeds out of your own."
"Italian","Do not sell sun in July."
"Italian","Don't bite till you know whether it is bread or a stone."
"Italian","Don't believe in the saint unless he works miracles."
"Italian","Dogs bark, but the caravan goes on."
"Italian","Dogs bark at hose they don't know."
"Italian","Dog won't eat dog."
"Italian","Dog does not eat dog."
"Italian","Does your neighbour love you? Lend him a sequin."
"Italian","Death will find me alive."
"Italian","Do what you ought, come what may."
"Italian","Choose neither a woman nor linen by candlelight."
"Italian","Do not judge of the ship from the land."
"Italian","Do not give the dog bread every time he wags his tail."
"Italian","Do no evil and have no fear."
"Italian","Do good, and care not to whom."
"Italian","Diseases are the visits of God."
"Italian","Dirty water will quench fire."
"Italian","Dirty water does not wash clean."
"Italian","Different times different manners."
"Italian","Does your neighbor bore you? Lend him some money."
"Italian","Beware of vinegar made of sweet wine."
"Italian","Boil not the pap before the child is born."
"Italian","Blue are the hills that are far away."
"Italian","Blows are not given upon conditions."
"Italian","Blessings brighten as they take their flight."
"Italian","Blessed is the misfortune that comes alone."
"Italian","Bitter fruit will fall before the ripe."
"Italian","Big mouthfuls often choke."
"Italian","Conscience is as good as a thousand witnesses."
"Italian","Beware the person with nothing to lose."
"Italian","Borrowed garments never sit well."
"Italian","Beware of the vinegar of sweet wine."
"Italian","Beware of the person with nothing to lose."
"Italian","Beware of him who has nothing to lose."
"Italian","Beware of ""Had I but known."""
"Italian","Between two cowards, the first to detect the other has the advantage."
"Italian","Between two cowards, he has the advantage who first detects the other."
"Italian","Between the hand and the mouth the soup is spilt."
"Italian","Any publicity is good publicity."
"Italian","Big flies break the spider's web."
"Italian","By learning to obey, you will know how to command."
"Italian","Better untaught than ill taught."
"Italian","Choose neither a lover nor linen by candlelight."
"Italian","Children are poor men's riches."
"Italian","Chastise the good and he will mend, chastise the bad and he will grow worse."
"Italian","Cap in hand never did any harm."
"Italian","Call not a surgeon before you are wounded."
"Italian","Call no man happy till he dies."
"Italian","Call me not olive before you see me gathered."
"Italian","Boil stones in butter, and you may sip the broth."
"Italian","By night all cats are black."
"Italian","Borderers are either thieves or murderers."
"Italian","By lamplight every country wench seems handsome."
"Italian","By asking the impossible you will get the best."
"Italian","By asking for the impossible we obtain the best possible."
"Italian","Buy what you have no need of and ere long you shall sell your necessaries."
"Italian","Buy the bed of a great debtor."
"Italian","Broad thongs may be cut from other men's leather."
"Italian","Break the legs of an evil custom."
"Italian","Christmas comes but once a year."
"Italian","By their marks the bales are known."
"Italian","Vexations, duly borne, Are but as trials, which heaven's love to man Sends for his good."
"Italian","Two cocks in one yard do not agree."
"Italian","Two dogs fight for a bone and a third runs away with it."
"Italian","Two women and a goose make a market."
"Italian","Unbending the bow does not cure the wound."
"Italian","Unbending the bow does not heal the wound."
"Italian","Under white ashes there is glowing coal."
"Italian","Until death there is no knowing what may befal."
"Italian","Vainglory blossoms but never bears."
"Italian","Various are the roads to fame."
"Italian","The woman who gives is seldom good; the woman who accepts is in the power of the giver."
"Italian","Vetches seem bitter to the full-cropped pigeon."
"Italian","True love never grows old."
"Italian","Vices are learned without a master."
"Italian","Virginity is noted only in its absence."
"Italian","Virtue comes not from chance but long study."
"Italian","Voice of one, voice of none."
"Italian","Wait time and place to take your revenge, for it is never well done in a hurry."
"Italian","Wake not a sleeping dog."
"Italian","War begun, hell unchained."
"Italian","War makes robbers, and peace hangs them."
"Italian","Water after does not quench a fire at hand."
"Italian","Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord."
"Italian","To the person who watches, everything reveals itself."
"Italian","To him that watches, everything is revealed."
"Italian","To him who can take what thou hast, give what he asks."
"Italian","To him who gives you a pig you may well give a rasher."
"Italian","To him who is determined it remains only to act."
"Italian","To him who watches, everything reveals itself."
"Italian","To know everything is to know nothing."
"Italian","To make the cart go you must grease the wheels."
"Italian","To preserve friendship, one must build walls."
"Italian","To promise and give nothing is comfort for a fool."
"Italian","Trust was a good man; Trust-not was a better."
"Italian","To the fallen tree, hatchets. hatchets."
"Italian","Trust not the praise of a friend nor the contempt of an enemy."
"Italian","To the person with little shame, the whole world is his."
"Italian","To trust is good; not to trust is better."
"Italian","To whom you tell your secret you surrender your freedom."
"Italian","Too much prosperity makes most men fools."
"Italian","Translator, traitor."
"Italian","Translators, traitors."
"Italian","Travel broadens the mind."
"Italian","Trouble rides a fast horse."
"Italian","Trouble shared is trouble halved."
"Italian","We are all adam's children."
"Italian","To protest and knock one's head against the wall is what everybody can do."
"Italian","When ill luck falls asleep, let none wake her."
"Italian","Water past will not turn the mill."
"Italian","When a wife sins the husband is never innocent."
"Italian","When everybody says you are drunk, go to sleep."
"Italian","When fortune comes, open your doors."
"Italian","When God punishes a land, he deprives it's leaders of wisdom."
"Italian","When God will not, the saints cannot."
"Italian","When gold speaks every tongue is silent."
"Italian","When good cheer is lacking, our friends will be packing."
"Italian","When his head is broken he puts on his helmet."
"Italian","When a man is falling, every saint pushes him."
"Italian","When I'm dead, everybody's dead -- and the pig too."
"Italian","When a man has fallen into the mire, the more he flounders the more he fouls himself."
"Italian","When ill-luck falls asleep let nobody wake her."
"Italian","When it thunders, the thief becomes honest."
"Italian","When rogues go in procession the devil carries the cross."
"Italian","When the cat's away the mice dance."
"Italian","When the cat's away the rats dance."
"Italian","When the danger has passed, the saints are soon forgotten."
"Italian","When the danger is past God is cheated."
"Italian","When the devil is old he turns hermit."
"Italian","When the fox preaches, take care of yourselves, hens."
"Italian","When the lion is dead the hares jump upon his carcase."
"Italian","When house and land are gone and spent, then learning is most excellent."
"Italian","What has not been, may be."
"Italian","To have ""Heard say"" is half a lie."
"Italian","We learn by teaching."
"Italian","We learn from our mistakes."
"Italian","We love the treason but hate the traitor."
"Italian","Wealth conquered Rome after Rome had conquered the world."
"Italian","Wealth is not his who makes it, but his who enjoys it."
"Italian","Weather, husbands, and sons come as you take them."
"Italian","Well begun is half done."
"Italian","What a fool does in the end, the wise man does in the beginning."
"Italian","When a tree is falling, every one cries, down with it."
"Italian","What does not poison, fattens."
"Italian","Water, smoke, and a vicious woman, drive men out of the house."
"Italian","What is bought is cheaper than a gift."
"Italian","What is done cannot be undone."
"Italian","What keeps out the cold keeps out the heat."
"Italian","What shall I say when it is better to say nothing?"
"Italian","What the eye sees not the heart rues not."
"Italian","What will be, will be."
"Italian","What worth has beauty if it is not seen?"
"Italian","What you can't have, abuse."
"Italian","When a dog runs away, hit him. hit him."
"Italian","When a friend asks, there is no tomorrow."
"Italian","What costs little is little esteemed."
"Italian","There is no love like the first love."
"Italian","There never was a shoe however handsome that did not become an ugly slipper."
"Italian","There is little peace in that house where the hen crows and the cock is mute."
"Italian","There is never a cry of ""Wolf!"" but the wolf is in the district."
"Italian","There is never enmity between the cook and the butler."
"Italian","There is never enough where nought is left."
"Italian","There is no appeal from time past."
"Italian","There is no beard so well shaven but another barber will find something more to shave from it."
"Italian","There is no dog, be he ever so wicked, but wags his tail."
"Italian","There is no fool like a learned fool."
"Italian","There is a cause for all things."
"Italian","There is no helping him who will not be advised."
"Italian","There goes more to marriage than four bare legs in a bed."
"Italian","There is no love without jealousy."
"Italian","There is no making pancakes without breaking the eggs."
"Italian","There is no need to bind up one's head before it is broken."
"Italian","There is no robber worse than a bad book."
"Italian","There is no thief like a bad book."
"Italian","There is no use in saying, I will not go such a way, nor drink of such a water."
"Italian","There is no worse fruit than that which never ripens."
"Italian","There is no worse joke than a true one."
"Italian","There is no worse robber than a bad book."
"Italian","To have luck needs little wit."
"Italian","There is no getting blood from a turnip."
"Italian","There are many roads to Rome."
"Italian","The workman is known by his work."
"Italian","The world belongs to the phlegmatic."
"Italian","The world is for him who has patience."
"Italian","The world is governed with little brains."
"Italian","The world is like a staircase; some go up, others go down."
"Italian","The world wags on with three things: doing, undoing, and pretending."
"Italian","The worst pig gets the best pear."
"Italian","The worst pig often gets the best pear."
"Italian","The worst wheel creaks most."
"Italian","There is a deep sea between saying and doing."
"Italian","There are good and bad everywhere."
"Italian","There's no disputing about tastes."
"Italian","There are more asses than carry sacks."
"Italian","There are more thieves than gibbets."
"Italian","There are more threatened than slain."
"Italian","There are more ways to the wood than one."
"Italian","There are no birds in last year's nest."
"Italian","There are some who despise pride with a greater pride."
"Italian","There are some who see ill, and would like to see worse."
"Italian","There are tricks in all trades."
"Italian","There are tricks in every trade."
"Italian","There goes more than one ass to market."
"Italian","The wrong-doer never lacks excuses."
"Italian","To a weaving that has begun, God sends threads."
"Italian","There is no worse thief than a bad book."
"Italian","Three may keep a secret, if two of them are dead."
"Italian","Three things drive a man out of doors: smoke, dropping water, and a shrew."
"Italian","Three women and a goose make a market."
"Italian","Through being too knowing the fox lost his tail."
"Italian","Tie me hand and foot and throw me among my own people."
"Italian","Tied to the sowre apple-tree."
"Italian","Time and patience change the mulberry leaf to satin."
"Italian","Time is an inaudible file."
"Italian","Three brothers, three castles."
"Italian","To a quick question, give a slow answer."
"Italian","Three are powerful: the Pope, the king, and the man who has nothing."
"Italian","To a young heart everything is sport."
"Italian","To be lucky you need a little wit."
"Italian","To become rich in this world, it needs only to turn one's back on God."
"Italian","To censure princes is perilous, and to praise them is lying."
"Italian","To err is human, to persist in it, beastly."
"Italian","To every saint his torch."
"Italian","To expect what never comes, to lie in bed and not sleep, to serve well and not be advanced, are three things to die of."
"Italian","To fall out of the frying-pan into the fire."
"Italian","To go safely through the world you must have the eye of a falcon, the ear of an ass, the face of an ape, the mouth of a pig, the shoulders of a camel, and the legs of a deer."
"Italian","When the pear is ripe, it falls."
"Italian","To a crazy ship every wind is contrary."
"Italian","They who sing through the summer must dance in the winter."
"Italian","There's no fool like a learned fool."
"Italian","There's no getting to heaven in a coach."
"Italian","There's no going to heaven in a sedan."
"Italian","There's no great loss without some gain."
"Italian","There's no making the ass drink when his is not thirsty."
"Italian","There's no smoke with fire."
"Italian","There's no thief like a bad book."
"Italian","There's no turning a windmill with a pair of bellows."
"Italian","There's none so blind as those who will not see."
"Italian","Three know it, all know it."
"Italian","They who shun the smoke often fall into the fire."
"Italian","To have eye one on the cat and another on the frying-pan."
"Italian","Thick wine is better than clear water."
"Italian","Things are not as they are, but as they are regarded."
"Italian","Think much, speak little and write less."
"Italian","Thirst comes from drinking."
"Italian","Those who begin many things finish but a few."
"Italian","Those who don't understand prayer -- let them go to sea."
"Italian","Those who sleep with dogs will rise with fleas."
"Italian","Though a lie be swift, truth overtakes it."
"Italian","Though the fox runs, the pullets have wings."
"Italian","Threats are arms for the threatened."
"Italian","They say, is a liar."
"Italian","Who will not be ruled by the rudder must be ruled by the rock."
"Italian","Wise men learn by other men's mistakes, fools by their own."
"Italian","Who saves, saves for the cat."
"Italian","Who says A must say B."
"Italian","Who seeks a quarrel will find it near at hand."
"Italian","Who serves the public, serves no one."
"Italian","Who serves well and says nothing makes claim enough."
"Italian","Who sows ill reaps ill."
"Italian","Who suffers from love, feels no pain."
"Italian","Who takes an eel by the tail and a woman at her word, may say he holds nothing."
"Italian","Who pays a debt creates capital."
"Italian","Who troubles others has no rest himself."
"Italian","Who paints me before blackens me behind."
"Italian","Who wishes for a short Lent let him contract debts to be paid at Easter."
"Italian","Who would have many friends let him test but few."
"Italian","Who would make money must begin by spending it."
"Italian","Who would not have feet set on his neck, let him not stoop."
"Italian","Whoever brings finds the door open for him."
"Italian","Whoever stays awake longest must blow out the candle."
"Italian","Willows are weak, yet serve to bind bigger wood."
"Italian","Wine is old men's milk."
"Italian","Wise lads and old fools were never good for anything."
"Italian","Who is born a fool is never cured."
"Italian","Who throws a stone at the sky, it falls back on his head."
"Italian","Who laughs at others' ills, has his own behind the door."
"Italian","When the lion's skin falls short, piece it out with that of the fox."
"Italian","Who is in the right fears, who is in the wrong hopes."
"Italian","Who judges others, condemns himself."
"Italian","Who keeps company with a wolf will learn to howl."
"Italian","Who knows most says least."
"Italian","Who knows most, forgives most."
"Italian","Who knows most, knows least."
"Italian","Who knows not how to dissemble knows not how to reign."
"Italian","Who knows not how to flatter knows not how to talk."
"Italian","Who pays beforehand is served behindhand."
"Italian","Who knows not the game, let him not play."
"Italian","With art and knavery we live through half the year; with knavery and art we live through the other."
"Italian","Who lies down with dogs gets up with fleas."
"Italian","Who loves the tree loves the branch."
"Italian","Who loves to roam may lose his home."
"Italian","Who loves well chastises well."
"Italian","Who loves, believes."
"Italian","Who loves, fears."
"Italian","Who makes the wolf his companion should carry a dog under his cloak."
"Italian","Who more busy than they who have least to do?"
"Italian","Who moves, picks up, who stands still, dries up."
"Italian","Who offends writes on sand; who is offended, on marble."
"Italian","Who knows not how to pray let him go sail the sea."
"Italian","You don't go to heaven in a carriage."
"Italian","Wise men change their minds, fools never."
"Italian","Years know more than books."
"Italian","Yes and no rule the world."
"Italian","Yielding is sometimes the best way of succeeding."
"Italian","You are my guide, my lord, and my master."
"Italian","You can live without a brother but not without a friend."
"Italian","You cannot damage a wrecked whip."
"Italian","You cannot discover new oceans unless you have the courage to lose sight of the shore."
"Italian","You cannot draw blood from a turnip."
"Italian","Words won't feet cats."
"Italian","You cannot write down a meaningful silence."
"Italian","Words are for women, actions for men."
"Italian","You have married a beauty? So much the worse for you."
"Italian","You must grease the wheels if you would have the car run."
"Italian","You must marry a widow while she is still mourning."
"Italian","You must shift your sail with the wind."
"Italian","You must take the fat with the lean."
"Italian","You surround your vineyard with thorns - place doors and locks on your mouth."
"Italian","You will never have a friend if you must have one without faults."
"Italian","You will not be loved if you think of yourself alone."
"Italian","Your enemy makes you wiser."
"Italian","No one perceives where the shoe pinches but he who wears it."
"Italian","You cannot make the mule drink when he is not thirsty."
"Italian","Woman, impromptu; man, on reflection."
"Italian","With so many roosters crowing, the sun never comes up."
"Italian","With the first wife is matrimony, the second company, the third heresy."
"Italian","With the fox one must play the fox."
"Italian","With the Gospel men may become heretics."
"Italian","With the skin of the dog its bite is cured."
"Italian","With time and straw medlars ripen."
"Italian","With wishing comes grieving."
"Italian","Without debt without care."
"Italian","Wolves do not eat each other."
"Italian","Years and sins are always more than admitted."
"Italian","Wolves have howled at the moon for centuries, yet it is still there."
"Italian","Who hath no courage must have legs."
"Italian","Women always speak the truth, but not the whole truth."
"Italian","Women and hens are lost by too much gadding."
"Italian","Women are wise impromptu, fools on reflection."
"Italian","Women know a point more than the devil."
"Italian","Women naturally deceive, weep and spin."
"Italian","Women rouge that they may not blush."
"Italian","Women's tears are a fountain of craft."
"Italian","Women, asses, and nuts, require strong hands."
"Italian","Women, priests, and poultry, never have enough."
"Italian","Words are female, deeds are male."
"Italian","Wolves don't eat wolves."
"Italian","Where there are no hounds the fox is king."
"Italian","Who accepts, sells himself."
"Italian","Where shall a man have a worse friend than he brings from home."
"Italian","Where the devil cannot put his head he puts his tail."
"Italian","Where the hedge is low every one will cross it."
"Italian","Where the Pope is there is Rome."
"Italian","Where the pupil is willing; the teachers will appear."
"Italian","Where the river is deepest it makes the least noise."
"Italian","Where the ship goes the brig can go."
"Italian","Where the skin of the lion does not suffice, we must join that of the fox."
"Italian","Where passion is high, reason is low."
"Italian","Where there are no dogs the fox is a king."
"Italian","Where love is there the eye is."
"Italian","Where there are too many cooks the soup will be too salty."
"Italian","Where there is equality there never can be perfect love."
"Italian","Where there is great love there is great pain."
"Italian","Where there is least heart there is most tongue."
"Italian","Where there is nothing to gain, there is a lot to lose."
"Italian","Where there's a will there's a way."
"Italian","Where there's life, there's hope."
"Italian","While the grass grows, the steed starves."
"Italian","While there's life there's hope."
"Italian","Who is in fear of every leaf must not go into the wood."
"Italian","Where the wolf gets one lamb he looks for another."
"Italian","When there is little bread at table put plenty on your plate."
"Italian","Who sows thorns should not go barefoot."
"Italian","When the ship has sunk everyone knows how she might have been saved."
"Italian","When the sun is highest it casts the least shadow."
"Italian","When the sun shines on thee, thou needest not care for the moon."
"Italian","When the tree is down every one runs to it with a hatchet to cut wood."
"Italian","When the will is prompt the legs are nimble."
"Italian","When the wind is in the east, 'tis neither good for man nor beast."
"Italian","When the wind serves, all aid."
"Italian","When the wine is in, the wit is out."
"Italian","Where remedies are needed, sighing avails not."
"Italian","When there is a fire in the neighbourhood carry water to your own house."
"Italian","Who acts not, fails not."
"Italian","When there is nothing the church loses."
"Italian","When wine comes in, modesty leaves."
"Italian","When wine enters modesty departs."
"Italian","When wine sinks, words swim."
"Italian","When wise men play mad pranks they do it with a vengeance."
"Italian","When woman reigns the devil governs."
"Italian","When you see the wolf, do not look for his track."
"Italian","When your devil was born, mine was going to school."
"Italian","When your neighbor's house is on fire, carry water to your own."
"Italian","Where gold speaks every tongue is silent."
"Italian","When the wine's in the wit's out."
"Italian","Who has no money must have no wishes."
"Italian","While two dogs are fighting for a bone, a third runs away with it."
"Italian","Who goes slowly, goes wisely, and who goes wisely, goes far."
"Italian","Who goes softly goes safely, and he that goes safely goes far."
"Italian","Who goes to Rome a beast returns a beast."
"Italian","Who has a tongue in his head can go all the world over."
"Italian","Who has love in his heart has spurs in his sides."
"Italian","Who has never done thinking never begins doing."
"Italian","Who has no children does not know what love is."
"Italian","Who has no courage must have legs."
"Italian","Who goes himself is in earnest, who sends is indifferent."
"Italian","Who has no money in his purse must have honey in his mouth."
"Italian","Who glows not burns not."
"Italian","Who has no plagues makes himself some."
"Italian","Who has no shame all the world is his own."
"Italian","Who has not is not."
"Italian","Who has nothing fears nothing."
"Italian","Who has nothing is nothing."
"Italian","Who has patience may get fat thrushes at a farthing apiece."
"Italian","Who has patience sees his revenge."
"Italian","Who has something is something."
"Italian","Who has, is."
"Italian","Who hath little shame the world is all his own."
"Italian","Who has no head should have legs."
"Italian","Who divides honey with the bear, will be like to get the lesser share.."
"Italian","Who builds on the mob builds on sand."
"Italian","Who builds upon the people, builds upon sand."
"Italian","Who buys hath need of eyes."
"Italian","Who buys land buys war."
"Italian","Who can do, don't want to; Who wants to, can't do; Who knows how to do, won't do it; Who does it, doesn't know how to; and, so, badly goes the world."
"Italian","Who cannot beat the horse let him beat the saddle."
"Italian","Who changes country changes luck."
"Italian","Who changes his condition changes fortune."
"Italian","Who comes seldom, is welcome."
"Italian","Who goes not, sees not; who proves not, believes not."
"Italian","Who depends on another man's table often dines late."
"Italian","When the millers are making an uproar, do you tie up your sacks."
"Italian","Who does all he may never does well."
"Italian","Who does not wish to be like the wolf let him not wear its skin."
"Italian","Who does too much, often does little."
"Italian","Who errs in the tens errs in the thousands."
"Italian","Who excuses himself accuses himself."
"Italian","Who excuses himself without being accused makes his fault manifest."
"Italian","Who frequents the kitchen smells of smoke."
"Italian","Who gives bread to other's dogs is often barked at by her own."
"Italian","Who gives sell, sells dear, if the receiver be not a churl."
"Italian","Who gives, teaches a return."
"Italian","Who dangles after the great is the last at table and the first to be cuffed."
"Italian","Stones or bread, one must have something in hand for the dogs."
"Italian","Teeth placed in front of the tongue give good advice."
"Italian","Speak not ill of the year until it is past."
"Italian","Speak not of my debts unless you mean to pay them."
"Italian","Speak of the devil and he appears."
"Italian","Speak well of your friend; of your enemy neither well nor ill."
"Italian","Speak when you are spoken to."
"Italian","Spur not a willing horse."
"Italian","St. Francis shaved himself first, and then he shaved his brethren."
"Italian","Starlings are lean because they go in flocks."
"Italian","Sometimes it is better to give your apple away, than to eat it yourself."
"Italian","Still water breeds vermin."
"Italian","Some who just tell tales of themselves."
"Italian","Strength avails not a coward."
"Italian","Stretch your arm no further than your sleeve will reach."
"Italian","Strike while the iron is hot."
"Italian","Strong is the vinegar of sweet wine."
"Italian","Substance is not enough, accident is also required."
"Italian","Summer is the mother of the poor."
"Italian","Sweet meat requires sour sauce."
"Italian","Take care you don't let your tail be caught in the door."
"Italian","Take down a thief from the gallows and he will hang you up."
"Italian","Short is the road that leads from fear to hatred."
"Italian","Step by step one goes to Rome."
"Italian","Smooth words do not flay the tongue."
"Italian","The cask can give no other wine that that it contains."
"Italian","Silence was never written down."
"Italian","Since the house is on fire I will warm myself at the blaze."
"Italian","Since the house is on fire, let us warm ourselves."
"Italian","Six feet of earth make us all equal."
"Italian","Six feet of earth will make us all equal."
"Italian","Six hours sleep for a man, seven for a woman, and eight for a fool."
"Italian","Six of one, and half a dozen of the other."
"Italian","Skill or fortune will efface the spots."
"Italian","Soon crooks the tree That good gambrel would be."
"Italian","Small rain lays great dust."
"Italian","Tell everybody your business and the devil will do it for you."
"Italian","Smooth words make smooth ways."
"Italian","Snapping curs never want sore ears."
"Italian","So good that he is good for nothing."
"Italian","So kind and so honest my lady appears to be."
"Italian","So many countries, so many customs."
"Italian","Softly, barber, the water scalds."
"Italian","Softly, don't raise a dust."
"Italian","Softly, softly, catchee monkey."
"Italian","Some many heads, so many brains."
"Italian","Some sing who are not merry."
"Italian","Small rain lays a great wind."
"Italian","The best spices are in small bags."
"Italian","Teeth placed before the tongue give good advice."
"Italian","The beast once dead, the venom is dead."
"Italian","The beggar's wallet has no bottom."
"Italian","The bell does not go to mass, and yet calls every one to it."
"Italian","The best advice one can give to the hungry is bread."
"Italian","The best always goes first."
"Italian","The best armor is to keep out of range."
"Italian","The best is the cheapest."
"Italian","The best is the enemy of the good."
"Italian","The back door robbeth the house."
"Italian","The best physicians are Dr. Diet, Dr. Quiet, and Dr. Merryman."
"Italian","The back door is the one that robs the home."
"Italian","The best swimmer is the first to drown himself."
"Italian","The best trees are the most beaten."
"Italian","The best way to get praise is to die."
"Italian","The big fish eat the little."
"Italian","The biter is sometimes bit."
"Italian","The braying of an ass does not reach heaven."
"Italian","The bucket goes so often to the well that it leaves its handle there."
"Italian","The buckets take to fighting with the well, and get their heads broken."
"Italian","The buyer has need of a hundred eyes, the seller of but one."
"Italian","The buyer needs a hundred eyes; the seller but one."
"Italian","The best pears fall into the pigs' mouths."
"Italian","That is pleasant to remember which was hard to endure."
"Italian","Tell me the company you keep, and I will tell you who you are."
"Italian","Tell me with whom you go and i'll tell you what you are."
"Italian","Tell your secret to your friend and he will set his foot on your neck."
"Italian","Temperance is the best medicine."
"Italian","Tempest in a teapot."
"Italian","Tenderness can be a bad judge."
"Italian","Thank you, pretty pussy, was the death of my cat."
"Italian","That costs dear which is bought with begging."
"Italian","That crown is well spent which saves you ten."
"Italian","The beard does not make the philosopher."
"Italian","That is done soon enough which is well done."
"Italian","She who is born a beauty is born betrothed."
"Italian","That priest is a fool who decries his relics."
"Italian","That suit is best that best fits me."
"Italian","That that comes of a cat will catch mice."
"Italian","That which is customary requires no excuse."
"Italian","That which the wise man does first, the fool does last."
"Italian","The anvil lasts longer than the hammer."
"Italian","The applause of the people is a blast of air."
"Italian","The apple does not fall far from the tree."
"Italian","The ass does not know the worth of this tail till he has lost it."
"Italian","The ass's hide is used to the stick."
"Italian","That happens in a moment which may not happen in a hundred years."
"Italian","Others' bread is too salt."
"Italian","Penny and penny laid up will be many."
"Italian","One word brings on another."
"Italian","One would not be alone even in Paradise."
"Italian","One would not be alone in Paradise."
"Italian","One's own spurs and another's horse make the miles short."
"Italian","Only a fool asks, ""What do you want with my wife?"""
"Italian","Open thy mouth that I may know thee."
"Italian","Opportunity makes the thief."
"Italian","Opportunity never knocks twice at any man's door."
"Italian","One who wants to keep their yard tidy does not reserve a plot for the weeds."
"Italian","Others' bread has seven crusts."
"Italian","One who walks in another's tracks leaves no footprints."
"Italian","Our last garment is made without pockets."
"Italian","Out of a great evil often comes a great good."
"Italian","Out of a white egg often comes a black chick."
"Italian","Out of debt, out of danger."
"Italian","Paper does not blush."
"Italian","Patience is a flower that grows not in everyone's garden."
"Italian","Patience is a plant that does not grow in everyone's garden."
"Italian","Patience! said the wolf to the ass."
"Italian","Pay beforehand was never well served."
"Italian","Sickness tells us what we are."
"Italian","Opportunity only knocks once."
"Italian","One may have good eyes and see nothing."
"Italian","Who takes a lion at a distance fears a mole present."
"Italian","The wolf is not always a wolf."
"Italian","No pear falls into a shut mouth."
"Italian","No rose without a thorn."
"Italian","No sooner is a law made than a way around it is discovered."
"Italian","One knife keeps another in its sheath."
"Italian","One knife whets another."
"Italian","One lie draw ten after it."
"Italian","One lie makes many."
"Italian","One with the courage to laugh is master of the world almost as much as the one who is ready to die."
"Italian","One may buy gold too dear."
"Italian","People get the government they deserve."
"Italian","One may have good eyes and yet see nothing."
"Italian","One minute of patience can result in ten years of peace."
"Italian","One nail drives out another."
"Italian","One never wept but another laughed."
"Italian","One pair of ears would exhaust a hundred tongues."
"Italian","One scabby sheep spoils a flock."
"Italian","One should learn to sail in all winds."
"Italian","One starts the hare, another catches it."
"Italian","One swallow does not make a summer."
"Italian","One who speaks fair words feeds you with an empty spoon."
"Italian","One living pope is better than ten dead."
"Italian","Second thoughts are best."
"Italian","Peel a fig for your friend, a peach for your enemy."
"Italian","Reconciled friendship is a wound ill salved."
"Italian","Revenge a hundred years old has still its milk-teeth."
"Italian","Running water carries no poison."
"Italian","Save a thief from the gallows and he'll be the first who shall cut your throat."
"Italian","Save something for the man that rides on the white horse."
"Italian","Save us from our friends."
"Italian","Savings are the first gain."
"Italian","Say what we will, do what we will, the boat goes but sorrily without oars."
"Italian","Ravens do not peck out raven's eyes."
"Italian","Saying is one thing, doing another."
"Italian","Rather have a little one for your friend, than a great one for your enemy."
"Italian","Secrecy is the beginning of tyranny."
"Italian","See Naples, and then die! For the smell you find there."
"Italian","See Naples, and then die."
"Italian","See no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil."
"Italian","Seeing is believing."
"Italian","Seldom seen soon forgotten."
"Italian","Self exaltation is the fool's paradise."
"Italian","Sell me dear, and measure me fair."
"Italian","Sell not the bear's skin before you have caught him."
"Italian","Service is not inheritance."
"Italian","Saying and doing are two things."
"Italian","Pride breakfasted with plenty, dined with poverty, and supped with infamy."
"Italian","Plenty makes daintiness."
"Italian","Plenty of words when the cause is lost."
"Italian","Pluck the magpie, and don't make her scream."
"Italian","Pluck the rose and leave the thorns."
"Italian","Poison quells poison."
"Italian","Poor men do penance for rich men's sins."
"Italian","Poor men's money and cowards' weapons are often flourished."
"Italian","Poverty has no kin."
"Italian","Poverty wants many things, and avarice all."
"Italian","Reason lies between the bridle and the spur."
"Italian","Preventing someone from falling is better than helping him get up."
"Italian","Sometimes the lees are better than the wine."
"Italian","Pride went out on horseback, and returned on foot."
"Italian","Priests, friars, nuns, and chickens never have enough."
"Italian","Princes have long arms."
"Italian","Proverbs bear age, and he who would do well may view himself in them as in a looking glass."
"Italian","No one should take in an eating pawn."
"Italian","Public money is like holy water, every one helps himself to it."
"Italian","Put the cart before the horse."
"Italian","Quick and well don't agree."
"Italian","Rather an ass that carries than a horse that throws."
"Italian","Rather hat in hand than hand in purse."
"Italian","Praise the sea, and keep on land."
"Italian","The remedy is often worse than the disease."
"Italian","The man who never makes a mistake always takes orders from one who does."
"Italian","The point of the thorn is small, but hw who has felt it does not forget it."
"Italian","The poison of asps is under their lips."
"Italian","The poor is hated by his neighbour, but the rich hath many friends."
"Italian","The poorhouse is filled with honest people."
"Italian","The poorhouse is full of honest people."
"Italian","The pope and a peasant know more between them than the pope alone."
"Italian","The priest errs at the altar."
"Italian","The priest's friend loses his faith, the doctor's his health, and the lawyer's his fortune."
"Italian","The person who offends writes as if it was written on sand, and the person who is offended reads it as if it were written on marble."
"Italian","The remedy for injuries is not to remember them."
"Italian","The person who lives with cripples will soon learn to limp."
"Italian","The rich never have to seek out their relatives."
"Italian","The right hand is slave to the left."
"Italian","The right man comes at the right time."
"Italian","The river does not swell with clear water."
"Italian","The river passed the saint forgotten."
"Italian","The roses fall, and the thorns remain."
"Italian","The roses fall, the thorns remain."
"Italian","The rotten apple injures its neighbour."
"Italian","The saint has no believers unless he works miracles."
"Italian","The salt of patience seasons everything."
"Italian","The purse of loved ones is tied with a gossamer thread."
"Italian","The mountains are in labour, and bring forth a mouse."
"Italian","The mill does not grind without water."
"Italian","The mills of god grind slowly, yet they grind exceedingly small."
"Italian","The moon does not heed the baying of dogs."
"Italian","The more physical the love, the more sublime."
"Italian","The more the fox is cursed, the more prey he catches."
"Italian","The more the merrier."
"Italian","The more you stroke the cat's back the more set sets up her tail."
"Italian","The mortar always smells of garlic."
"Italian","The most prudent yields to the strongest."
"Italian","The pitcher that goes often to the fountain leaves there either its handle or its spout."
"Italian","The mother of idiots is always pregnant."
"Italian","The same hammer that breaks the glass forges the steel."
"Italian","The mouse does not leave the cat's house with a bellyful."
"Italian","The myrtle is always a myrtle, though it be among nettles."
"Italian","The ox saying 'horned' to the donkey."
"Italian","The pan says to the pot: Keep off, or you'll smutch me."
"Italian","The pan says to the pot: Keep off, or you'll smutch me."
"Italian","The people's voice, God's voice."
"Italian","The person who doubts nothing, knows nothing."
"Italian","The person who enjoys good health is rich, even if he doesn't know it."
"Italian","The person who has no opinion will seldom be wrong."
"Italian","The person who lives by hope will die by despair."
"Italian","The moth does most mischief to the finest garment."
"Italian","The virtue of parents is in itself a great legacy."
"Italian","The tender surgeon makes the wound gangrene."
"Italian","The thief is frightened even by a mouse."
"Italian","The thief's wife does not always laugh."
"Italian","The tongue goes to where the tooth aches."
"Italian","The tree does not fall at the first stroke."
"Italian","The tree is known by its fruit."
"Italian","The tree is not felled at one blow."
"Italian","The tree is not to be judged of by its bark."
"Italian","The Trojans were wise too late."
"Italian","The same fire purifies gold and consumes straw."
"Italian","The venom is in the tail."
"Italian","Sometimes an egg is given for an ox."
"Italian","The virtue of silence is a great piece of knowledge."
"Italian","The water breaks out where it is not expected."
"Italian","The well-fed man does not believe in hunger."
"Italian","The white coat does not make the miller."
"Italian","The whole hog or none."
"Italian","The whole ocean is made up of single drops."
"Italian","The wicked even hate vice in others."
"Italian","The wolf bemoans the sheep, and then eats it."
"Italian","The wolf is always left out of the reckoning."
"Italian","The wolf is always said to be more terrible than he is."
"Italian","The unfortunate know who are their real friends."
"Italian","The sick man sleeps when the debtor cannot."
"Italian","The sun is still beautiful, though ready to set."
"Italian","The same shoe does not fit every foot."
"Italian","The scalded dog fears cold water."
"Italian","The scalded dog fears hot water, and afterwards, cold."
"Italian","The scent of every flower is short lived."
"Italian","The second thought is always the best."
"Italian","The shadow of a lord is a cap for a fool."
"Italian","The she-bear thinks her cubs pretty."
"Italian","The sheep that bleats loses a mouthful."
"Italian","The ship does not go without the boat."
"Italian","The talkers sows, the listener reaps."
"Italian","The sick man is free to say all."
"Italian","The tail is always the hardest part to flay."
"Italian","The smaller the heart, the longer the tongue."
"Italian","The smoke of my own house is better than another man's fire."
"Italian","The soldier is well paid for doing mischief."
"Italian","The soldier's blood exalts the captain."
"Italian","The sound of the bell does not drive away rooks."
"Italian","The stitch is lost unless the thread be knotted."
"Italian","The strongest is always in the right."
"Italian","The cat loves fish, but is loth to wet her feet."
"Italian","The sun loses nothing by shining into a puddle."
"Italian","The same fire which purifies gold consumes straw."
"Italian","The shirt is nearer than the doublet."
"Italian","The eye is blind if the mind is absent."
"Italian","The donkey won't drink if he can't see water."
"Italian","The dying cannot leave their wisdom or experience to their heirs."
"Italian","The eagle does not wage war against frogs."
"Italian","The eagle does not war against frogs."
"Italian","The earth covers the errors of the physician."
"Italian","The election of the abbot is not stopped for want of a monk."
"Italian","The elephant does not feel a flea-bite."
"Italian","The end of passion is the beginning of repentance."
"Italian","The end of the corsair is to drown."
"Italian","The fool knows more in his own house than the sage in other men's."
"Italian","The end praises the work."
"Italian","The dog that means to bite don't bark."
"Italian","The eye of the master fattens the horse."
"Italian","The father a saint the son a devil."
"Italian","The fear of war is worse than war itself."
"Italian","The feast passes and the fool remains."
"Italian","The first at the mill grinds first."
"Italian","The first dish pleases every one."
"Italian","The flatterer's throat is an open sepulchre."
"Italian","The fly that bites the tortoise breaks its beak."
"Italian","The fool has to do at last what the wise did at first."
"Italian","The end of the pig is the beginning of the sausage."
"Italian","The devil turns away from a closed door."
"Italian","The man who loves is easy of belief."
"Italian","The cock is bold on his own dunghill."
"Italian","The comforter's head never aches."
"Italian","The common soldier's blood makes the general great."
"Italian","The company makes the feast."
"Italian","The countries you visit, the customs you find."
"Italian","The court of Rome likes not sheep without wool."
"Italian","The cowl does not make the monk."
"Italian","The danger past, the saint cheated."
"Italian","The dog wags his tail, not for you, but for your bread."
"Italian","The devil is bad because he is old."
"Italian","The dog that quits barking can get some sleep."
"Italian","The devil will tempt Lucifer."
"Italian","The difficult thing is to get foot in the stirrup."
"Italian","The doctor seldom takes physic."
"Italian","The dog barks and the ox feeds."
"Italian","It is better if you could say ""Here he ran away"" than ""Here he was killed."""
"Italian","The dog that bites does not bark in vain."
"Italian","The dog that has been beaten with a stick is afraid of its shadow."
"Italian","The dog that is quarrelsome and not strong, woe to his hide."
"Italian","The dog that licks ashes is not to be trusted with flour."
"Italian","The fish rots from the head."
"Italian","The darkest hour is just before dawn."
"Italian","The liar is not believed when he speaks the truth."
"Italian","The chamber-bell is the worst sound one have in his ears."
"Italian","The highest branch is not the safest roost."
"Italian","The house completed, possession defeated."
"Italian","The fortress that parleys soon surrenders."
"Italian","The Italianised Englishman is a devil incarnate."
"Italian","The first blow is as good as two."
"Italian","The joker confesses."
"Italian","The just man may sin with an open chest of gold before him."
"Italian","The kick of a mare never hurt a colt."
"Italian","The last comer shuts the door."
"Italian","The higher the rise the greater the fall."
"Italian","The lazy pig does not eat ripe pears."
"Italian","The injurer never forgets."
"Italian","The light is painful to sore eyes."
"Italian","The lion and the lamb shall lie down together, but the lamb won't get much sleep."
"Italian","The lion had need of the mouse."
"Italian","The lion is known by his claws."
"Italian","The lives of doctors, the souls of priests, and the property of lawyers, are in great danger."
"Italian","The lone sheep is in danger of the wolf."
"Italian","The longest way round is the shortest way home."
"Italian","The loquacity of fools is a lecture to the wise."
"Italian","The man who knows two languages is worth two men."
"Italian","The man who lives only by hope will die with despair."
"Italian","The later comer is ill lodged."
"Italian","The full belly does not believe in hunger."
"Italian","The fox advised the others to cut off their tails, because he had left his own in the trap."
"Italian","The fox said the grapes were sour."
"Italian","The friendship of the great is fraternity with lions."
"Italian","The frog cannot out of her bog."
"Italian","The Italians are wise before the act, the Germans in the act, the French after the act."
"Italian","The fugitive finds everything impede him."
"Italian","The cheat always lies at the feet of the cheated."
"Italian","The full cask makes no noise."
"Italian","The gallows was made for the unlucky."
"Italian","The gallows will have its own at last."
"Italian","The gardener's dog does not eat lettuce and will not let others eat it."
"Italian","The heart does not think all the mouth says."
"Italian","The heart has reasons that reason does not understand."
"Italian","The golden key opens every door."
"Italian","The healthy die first."
"Italian","The hare starts from where it is least expected."
"Italian","The hardest step is that over the threshold."
"Italian","The good time comes but once."
"Italian","The sun passes over filth and is not defiled."
"Italian","The good shepherd shears, not flays."
"Italian","The good seaman is known in bad weather."
"Italian","The gown does not make the friar."
"Italian","Running water carries no poison."
"Italian","Quick and well don't agree."
"Italian","Rather an ass that carries than a horse that throws."
"Italian","Rather hat in hand than hand in purse."
"Italian","Rather have a little one for your friend, than a great one for your enemy."
"Italian","Reason lies between bridle and spur."
"Italian","Public money is like holy water, every one helps himself to it."
"Italian","Revenge a hundred years old has still its milk-teeth."
"Italian","Save a thief from the gallows and he'll be the first who shall cut your throat."
"Italian","Reconciled friendship is a wound ill salved."
"Italian","Proverbs bear age, and he who would do well may view himself in them as in a looking glass."
"Italian","Save something for the man that rides on the white horse."
"Italian","Priests, friars, nuns, and chickens never have enough."
"Italian","Second thoughts are best."
"Italian","Poverty has no kin."
"Italian","Poor men's money and cowards' weapons are often flourished."
"Italian","Poor men do penance for rich men's sins."
"Italian","Poison quells poison."
"Italian","Pluck the rose and leave the thorns."
"Italian","Pluck the magpie, and don't make her scream."
"Italian","Plenty of words when the cause is lost."
"Italian","Princes have long arms."
"Italian","Sell me dear, and measure me fair."
"Italian","Small rain lays great dust."
"Italian","Small rain lays a great wind."
"Italian","Skill or fortune will efface the spots."
"Italian","Six of one, and half a dozen of the other."
"Italian","Six hours sleep for a man, seven for a woman, and eight for a fool."
"Italian","Six feet of earth make us all equal."
"Italian","Since the house is on fire I will warm myself at the blaze."
"Italian","Silence was never written down."
"Italian","She who is born a beauty is born betrothed."
"Italian","Say what we will, do what we will, the boat goes but sorrily without oars."
"Italian","Sell not the bear's skin before you have caught him."
"Italian","Save us from our friends."
"Italian","Seldom seen soon forgotten."
"Italian","Seeing is believing."
"Italian","See no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil."
"Italian","See Naples and then die."
"Italian","Secrecy is the beginning of tyranny."
"Italian","Paper does not blush."
"Italian","Saying is one thing, doing another."
"Italian","Plenty makes daintiness."
"Italian","Savings are the first gain."
"Italian","Service is not inheritance."
"Italian","One door never shuts but another opens."
"Italian","Pay beforehand was never well served."
"Italian","One lie makes many."
"Italian","One lie draw ten after it."
"Italian","One knife keeps another in its sheath."
"Italian","One is never too old to yearn."
"Italian","One good word quenches more heat than a bucket of water."
"Italian","One good morsel and a hundred vexations."
"Italian","One fool is enough in a house."
"Italian","One flea does not hinder sleep."
"Italian","One may have good eyes and see nothing."
"Italian","One enemy is too many, and a hundred friends are too few."
"Italian","One never wept but another laughed."
"Italian","One devil knows another."
"Italian","One devil drives out another."
"Italian","One devil does not make hell."
"Italian","One daughter helps to marry the other."
"Italian","One cannot drink and whistle at the same time."
"Italian","One briar does not make a hedge."
"Italian","One bird in hand is better far Than two that in the bushes are."
"Italian","One bell serves a parish."
"Italian","One basket of grapes does not make a vintage."
"Italian","One eye of the master sees more than four eyes of his servants."
"Italian","If you would have your work ill done, pay beforehand."
"Italian","Peel a fig for your friend, a peach for your enemy."
"Italian","Smooth words do not flay the tongue."
"Italian","Patience! said the wolf to the ass."
"Italian","So good that he is good for nothing."
"Italian","Out of debt, out of danger."
"Italian","Out of a white egg often comes a black chick."
"Italian","Out of a great evil often comes a great good."
"Italian","Others' bread is too salt."
"Italian","Others' bread has seven crusts."
"Italian","One living pope is better than ten dead."
"Italian","One's own spurs and another's horse make the miles short."
"Italian","Penny and penny laid up will be many."
"Italian","One would not be alone in Paradise."
"Italian","One word brings on another."
"Italian","One with the courage to laugh is master of the world almost as much as the person ready to die."
"Italian","One who wants to keep their yard tidy does not reserve a plot for the weeds."
"Italian","One who speaks fair words feeds you with an empty spoon."
"Italian","One starts the hare, another catches it."
"Italian","One should learn to sail in all winds."
"Italian","One scabby sheep spoils a flock."
"Italian","One pair of ears would exhaust a hundred tongues."
"Italian","Open thy mouth that I may know thee."
"Italian","The braying of an ass does not reach heaven."
"Italian","The devil will tempt Lucifer."
"Italian","The devil is bad because he is old."
"Italian","The darkest hour is just before dawn."
"Italian","The danger past, the saint cheated."
"Italian","The court of Rome likes not sheep without wool."
"Italian","The company makes the feast."
"Italian","The common soldier's blood makes the general great."
"Italian","The cock is bold on his own dunghill."
"Italian","The chamber-bell (chamber-clapper, or curtain lecture) is the worst sound one have in his ears."
"Italian","Smooth words make smooth ways."
"Italian","The buckets take to fighting with the well, and get their heads broken."
"Italian","The dog barks and the ox feeds."
"Italian","The biter is sometimes bit."
"Italian","The big fish eat the little."
"Italian","The best trees are the most beaten."
"Italian","The best swimmer is the first to drown himself."
"Italian","The best spices are in small bags."
"Italian","The best physicians are Dr. Diet, Dr. Quiet, and Dr. Merryman."
"Italian","The best pears fall into the pigs' mouths."
"Italian","The best armor is to keep out of range."
"Italian","The best always goes first."
"Italian","The cask can give no other wine that that it contains."
"Italian","The elephant does not feel a flea-bite."
"Italian","The fox advised the others to cut off their tails, because he had left his own in the trap."
"Italian","The fortress that parleys soon surrenders."
"Italian","The fool knows more in his own house than the sage in other men's."
"Italian","The fly that bites the tortoise breaks its beak."
"Italian","The flatterer's throat is an open sepulchre."
"Italian","The first dish pleases every one."
"Italian","The first at the mill grinds first."
"Italian","The fear of war is worse than war itself."
"Italian","The eye of the master fattens the horse."
"Italian","The difficult thing is to get foot in the stirrup."
"Italian","The end praises the work."
"Italian","The doctor seldom takes physic."
"Italian","The election of the abbot is not stopped for want of a monk."
"Italian","The earth covers the errors of the physician."
"Italian","The eagle does not war against frogs."
"Italian","The dog that quits barking can get some sleep."
"Italian","The dog that means to bite don't bark."
"Italian","The dog that licks ashes is not to be trusted with flour."
"Italian","The dog that is quarrelsome and not strong, woe to his hide."
"Italian","The dog that has been beaten with a stick is afraid of its shadow."
"Italian","The dog that bites does not bark in vain."
"Italian","The beard does not make the philosopher."
"Italian","The eye is blind if the mind is absent."
"Italian","Soon crooks the tree That good gambrel would be."
"Italian","The beggar's wallet has no bottom."
"Italian","Stretch your arm no further than your sleeve will reach."
"Italian","Strength avails not a coward."
"Italian","Stones or bread, one must have something in hand for the dogs."
"Italian","Still water breeds vermin."
"Italian","Step by step one goes to Rome."
"Italian","Starlings are lean because they go in flocks."
"Italian","St. Francis shaved himself first, and then he shaved his brethren."
"Italian","Speak when you are spoken to."
"Italian","Sweet meat requires sour sauce."
"Italian","Speak of the devil and he appears."
"Italian","Take care you don't let your tail be caught in the door."
"Italian","Sometimes it is better to give your apple away, than to eat it yourself."
"Italian","Sometimes an egg is given for an ox."
"Italian","Some who just tell tales of themselves."
"Italian","Some sing who are not merry."
"Italian","Some many heads, so many brains."
"Italian","Softly, softly, catchee monkey."
"Italian","Softly, don't raise a dust."
"Italian","Softly, barber, the water scalds."
"Italian","Old reckonings, new disputes."
"Italian","Snapping curs never want sore ears."
"Italian","Speak well of your friend; of your enemy neither well nor ill."
"Italian","That priest is a fool who decries his relics."
"Italian","Once resolved, the trouble is over."
"Italian","The back door robbeth the house."
"Italian","The back door is the one that robs the home."
"Italian","The ass's hide is used to the stick."
"Italian","The ass does not know the worth of this tail till he has lost it."
"Italian","The apple does not fall far from the tree."
"Italian","The applause of the people is a blast of air."
"Italian","The anvil lasts longer than the hammer."
"Italian","That which is customary requires no excuse."
"Italian","Strong is the vinegar of sweet wine."
"Italian","That suit is best that best fits me."
"Italian","The beast once dead, the venom is dead."
"Italian","That happens in a moment which may not happen in a hundred years."
"Italian","That costs dear which is bought with begging."
"Italian","Thank you, pretty pussy, was the death of my cat."
"Italian","Tempest in a teapot."
"Italian","Temperance is the best medicine."
"Italian","Tell your secret to your friend and he will set his foot on your neck."
"Italian","Tell everybody your business and they will do it for you."
"Italian","Tell everybody your business and the devil will do it for you."
"Italian","Teeth placed before the tongue give good advice."
"Italian","Take down a thief from the gallows and he will hang you up."
"Italian","That that comes of a cat will catch mice."
"Italian","Men make wealth, and women preserve it."
"Italian","Little children and headaches, great children and heartaches."
"Italian","Many are brave when the enemy flies."
"Italian","Many are called but few are chosen."
"Italian","Many desire the tree who pretend to refuse the fruit."
"Italian","Many return from the war who cannot give an account of the battle."
"Italian","Many scruple to spit in church, and afterwards defile the altar."
"Italian","Many stop their noses at ambergris."
"Italian","Marriages are not as they are made, but as they turn out."
"Italian","Masters' hints are commands."
"Italian","Many a one threatens and yet is afraid."
"Italian","Men are as old as they fell, and women as they look."
"Italian","Many a one leaves the roast who afterwards longs for the smoke of it."
"Italian","Money and friendship break the arms of justice."
"Italian","Money is an epitome of human power."
"Italian","Money is money's brother."
"Italian","Money is round, and rolls."
"Italian","More unlucky than dogs in church."
"Italian","Mother-in-law and daughter-in-law, storm and hail."
"Italian","Mouth shut and eyes open."
"Italian","Much smoke, and little roast."
"Italian","Much water passes by the mill that the miller perceives not."
"Italian","Men after the modern fashion, and asses after the ancient."
"Italian","Love levels all inequalities."
"Italian","On a long journey even a straw is heavy."
"Italian","Look before you leap."
"Italian","Look for the hog at the oak."
"Italian","Look high and fall low."
"Italian","Look with suspicion on the flight of an enemy."
"Italian","Lookers-on see most of the game."
"Italian","Love demands faith, and faith firmness."
"Italian","Love is an excuse for its own faults."
"Italian","Love is master of all arts."
"Italian","Many a true word in spoken in jest."
"Italian","Love knows not labour."
"Italian","Near is my petticoat but nearer is my smock."
"Italian","Love rules his kingdom without a sword."
"Italian","Love rules without law."
"Italian","Love rules without rules. [Amore regge senza legge.]"
"Italian","Love your friend with his faults."
"Italian","Love's merchandise is jealousy and broken faith."
"Italian","Love, a cough, and smoke, are hard to hide."
"Italian","Lovers think others are blind."
"Italian","Lovers' purses are tied with cobwebs."
"Italian","Make me a prophet and I will make you rich."
"Italian","Love is the true price at which love is bought."
"Italian","Not every word requires an answer."
"Italian","No one ever kicks a dead dog."
"Italian","No one ever repented of having held his tongue."
"Italian","No one likes justice brought home to his own door."
"Italian","No one perceives where the shoe pinches but he who wears it."
"Italian","No one should take in an eating pawn (or pledge)."
"Italian","No pear falls into a shut mouth."
"Italian","No sooner is the law made than its evasion is discovered."
"Italian","No wonder lasts more than three days."
"Italian","Not all are asleep who have their eyes shut."
"Italian","Muddy water won't do for a mirror."
"Italian","Not all words require an answer."
"Italian","No meat ever remains in the shambles however bad it may be."
"Italian","Not everything which is bad comes to hurt us."
"Italian","Not having enough is like not having anything."
"Italian","Nothing can come out of a sack but what is in it."
"Italian","Nothing is difficult to a willing mind."
"Italian","Nothing is ever well done in a hurry, except flying from the plague or from quarrels, and catching fleas."
"Italian","Nothing is ill said if it is not ill taken."
"Italian","Nothing passes between asses but kicks."
"Italian","Of judgment every one has a stock on hand for sale."
"Italian","Of the great and of the dead either speak will or say nothing."
"Italian","Not all that shakes falls."
"Italian","Three know it, all know it."
"Italian","Lip courtesy pleases much and costs little."
"Italian","Near is my shirt, but nearer is my skin."
"Italian","Near the church far from God."
"Italian","Necessity and opportunity may make a coward valiant."
"Italian","Necessity becomes will."
"Italian","Neither women nor linen by candlelight."
"Italian","Never do evil that good may come of it."
"Italian","Never heed the colour of a gift horse."
"Italian","Never is a long time."
"Italian","No one ever became poor through giving alms."
"Italian","Never judge a book by its cover."
"Italian","No need to say ""trot"" to a good horse."
"Italian","Never let the sun go down on your anger."
"Italian","Never spur a willing horse."
"Italian","Never was a mewing cat a good mouser."
"Italian","No comforter's head ever aches."
"Italian","No day but has its evening."
"Italian","No day in which you learn something is a complete loss."
"Italian","No good doctor ever takes physic."
"Italian","No good lawyer ever goes to law himself."
"Italian","No good thing is failure and no evil thing success."
"Italian","My No is as good as your Yes."
"Italian","The fox said the grapes were sour."
"Italian","It is better to hear the nightingale sing than the mouse gnaw."
"Italian","Live and learn."
"Italian","Injury is to be measured by malice."
"Italian","It is a bad game where nobody wins."
"Italian","It is a bad thing to be a knave, but worse to be known for one."
"Italian","It is a bad thing to be poor, and seem poor."
"Italian","It is a good answer which knows when to stop."
"Italian","It is a good horse that never stumbles, And a good wife that never grumbles."
"Italian","It is a sorry house where the hens crow and the cock is silent."
"Italian","It is all one whether you die of sickness or of love."
"Italian","In war time there is pay for every horse."
"Italian","It is better to have a husband without love than jealous."
"Italian","In the war of love who flies conquers."
"Italian","It is better to irritate a dog than an old woman."
"Italian","It is better to leave than to lack."
"Italian","It is easy robbing when the dog is quieted."
"Italian","It is easy to give advice when all goes well."
"Italian","It is easy to preach fasting with a fully belly."
"Italian","It is easy to threaten a bull from a window."
"Italian","It is good living under the shadow of the belfry."
"Italian","It is good to buy when another wants to sell."
"Italian","It is good to have friends everywhere."
"Italian","It is always good to have two strings to your bow."
"Italian","Ill news comes apace."
"Italian","Old thanks are not for new gifts."
"Italian","Old birds are not caught with new nets."
"Italian","Of what does not concern you say nothing, good or bad."
"Italian","Of two evils choose the less."
"Italian","Of two cowards, the one who finds the other out first has the advantage."
"Italian","Of three things the devil makes a salad: advocate's tongues, notaries' fingers, and a third that shall be nameless."
"Italian","Of this world each man has as much as he takes."
"Italian","If you would succeed, you must not be too good."
"Italian","If young men had wit and old men strength everything might be well done."
"Italian","Injurious is the gift that takes away freedom."
"Italian","Ill luck comes by pounds and goes away by ounces."
"Italian","It is no time to play chess when the house is on fire."
"Italian","Ill news travels fast."
"Italian","Illness tells us what we are."
"Italian","Imagination gallops, judgment merely walks."
"Italian","In a golden sheath a leaden knife."
"Italian","In men every mortal sin is venial, in women every venial sin is mortal."
"Italian","In prosperity no altars smoke."
"Italian","In the country of the blind blessed is he that hath one eye."
"Italian","In the country of the blind the one eyed man is king."
"Italian","In the fray the weak are strong."
"Italian","Ill in kine and worse in beeves."
"Italian","Let not you shirt know your secret."
"Italian","Lasses and glasses are always in danger."
"Italian","Laughter makes good blood."
"Italian","Laws were made for rogues."
"Italian","Lawyers' robes are lined with the obstinacy of suitors."
"Italian","Lay it on thick and some of it will stick."
"Italian","Lay on more wood; ashes give money."
"Italian","Leave no nail unclenched."
"Italian","Let every fox take care of his own tail."
"Italian","Let every one keep off the flies with his own tail."
"Italian","It is good to hold the clothes of one who is swimming."
"Italian","Let him who is well off stay where he is."
"Italian","Keeping from falling is better then helping up."
"Italian","Let not your shirt know all your thoughts."
"Italian","Let the injurer not forget."
"Italian","Let us first catch the bear and then sell its skin."
"Italian","Let us have florins and we shall find cousins."
"Italian","Let well alone."
"Italian","Like lips, like lettuce."
"Italian","Like saint like offering."
"Italian","Like well like bucket."
"Italian","Like will to like, as the devil said to the collier."
"Italian","Let him not be a lover who has not courage."
"Italian","It is too late to come with water when the house is burnt down."
"Italian","On every small pretext the wolf seizes the sheep."
"Italian","It is no use crying over spilt milk."
"Italian","It is not easy to show the way to a blind man."
"Italian","It is not easy to steal in thieves' houses."
"Italian","It is not enough to know how to steal, one must know also how to conceal."
"Italian","It is not every flower that smells sweet."
"Italian","It is not honour for an eagle to vanquish a dove."
"Italian","It is not spring until you can plant your foot upon twelve daisies."
"Italian","It is not the long day, but the heart that does the work."
"Italian","Large trees give more shade than fruit."
"Italian","It is the petty expenses that empty the purse."
"Italian","Kin or no kin, woe to him who has nothing."
"Italian","It is truth that makes a many angry."
"Italian","It is vain to fish if the hook is not baited."
"Italian","It never thunders but it rains."
"Italian","It takes four living men to carry one dead man out of a house."
"Italian","It's a bad mouthful that chokes."
"Italian","It's a free country."
"Italian","It's a very proud horse that will not carry his oats."
"Italian","It's foolish sheep that makes the wolf its confessor."
"Italian","Keep yourself from opportunities and God will keep you from sins."
"Italian","It is in vain to lay a net in sight of the birds."
"Italian","It is the blood of the soldier that makes the general great."
"Italian","When your devil was born, mine was going to school."
"Italian","Who gives, teaches a return."
"Italian","Where there are too many cooks the soup will be too salty."
"Italian","Where there are no dogs the fox is a king."
"Italian","Where the skin of the lion does not suffice, we must join that of the fox."
"Italian","Where the ship goes the brig can go."
"Italian","Where the pupil is willing; the teachers will appear."
"Italian","Where the hedge is low every one will cross it."
"Italian","Where the devil cannot put his head he puts his tail."
"Italian","Where shall a man have a worse friend than he brings from home."
"Italian","Where there is great love there is great pain."
"Italian","Where love is there the eye is."
"Italian","Where there is least heart there is most tongue."
"Italian","When you see the wolf, do not look for his track."
"Italian","When woman reigns the devil governs."
"Italian","When wise men play mad pranks they do it with a vengeance."
"Italian","When wine sinks, words swim."
"Italian","When wine enters modesty departs."
"Italian","When there is nothing the church loses."
"Italian","When there is little bread at table put plenty on your plate."
"Italian","When there is a fire in the neighbourhood carry water to your own house."
"Italian","When the wine's in the wit's out."
"Italian","Where remedies are needed, sighing avails not."
"Italian","Who changes his condition changes fortune."
"Italian","Though the fox runs, the pullets have wings."
"Italian","Who frequents the kitchen smells of smoke."
"Italian","Who excuses himself without being accused makes his fault manifest."
"Italian","Who excuses himself accuses himself."
"Italian","Who errs in the tens errs in the thousands."
"Italian","Who does not wish to be like the wolf let him not wear its skin."
"Italian","Who does all he may never does well."
"Italian","Who divides honey with the bear, will be like to get the lesser share.."
"Italian","Who depends on another man's table often dines late."
"Italian","Where there is equality there never can be perfect love."
"Italian","Who comes seldom, is welcome."
"Italian","When the will is prompt the legs are nimble."
"Italian","Who changes country changes luck."
"Italian","Who cannot beat the horse let him beat the saddle."
"Italian","Who buys land buys war."
"Italian","Who buys hath need of eyes."
"Italian","Who builds upon the people, builds upon sand."
"Italian","Who builds on the mob builds on sand."
"Italian","Who accepts, sells himself."
"Italian","While two dogs are fighting for a bone, a third runs away with it."
"Italian","While there's life there's hope."
"Italian","Who dangles after the great is the last at table and the first to be cuffed."
"Italian","Vexations, duly borne, Are but as trials, which heaven's love to man Sends for his good."
"Italian","What will be, will be."
"Italian","What keeps out the cold keeps out the heat."
"Italian","What has not been, may be."
"Italian","What does not poison, fattens."
"Italian","What costs little is little esteemed."
"Italian","Wealth is not his who makes it, but his who enjoys it."
"Italian","Wealth conquered Rome after Rome had conquered the world."
"Italian","Water, smoke, and a vicious woman, drive men out of the house."
"Italian","Water after does not quench a fire at hand."
"Italian","When the wind serves, all aid."
"Italian","Wait time and place to take your revenge, for it is never well done in a hurry."
"Italian","When a man has fallen into the mire, the more he flounders the more he fouls himself."
"Italian","Vetches seem bitter to the full-cropped pigeon."
"Italian","Various are the roads to fame."
"Italian","Until death there is no knowing what may befal."
"Italian","Under white ashes there is glowing coal."
"Italian","Unbending the bow does not heal the wound."
"Italian","Unbending the bow does not cure the wound."
"Italian","Two women and a goose make a market."
"Italian","Two dogs fight for a bone and a third runs away with it."
"Italian","Two cocks in one yard do not agree."
"Italian","War begun, hell unchained."
"Italian","When it thunders, the thief becomes honest."
"Italian","Who glows not burns not."
"Italian","When the tree is down every one runs to it with a hatchet to cut wood."
"Italian","When the sun shines on thee, thou needest not care for the moon."
"Italian","When the ship has sunk everyone knows how she might have been saved."
"Italian","When the millers are making an uproar, do you tie up your sacks."
"Italian","When the lion's skin falls short, piece it out with that of the fox."
"Italian","When the lion is dead the hares jump upon his carcase."
"Italian","When the devil is old he turns hermit."
"Italian","When the cat's away the rats dance."
"Italian","What you can't have, abuse."
"Italian","When rogues go in procession the devil carries the cross."
"Italian","When a dog runs away, hit him! hit him!"
"Italian","When ill-luck falls asleep let nobody wake her."
"Italian","When I'm dead, everybody's dead, and the pig too."
"Italian","When house and land are gone and spent, then learning is most excellent."
"Italian","When his head is broken he puts on his helmet."
"Italian","When good cheer is lacking, our friends will be packing."
"Italian","When gold speaks every tongue is silent."
"Italian","When fortune comes, open your doors."
"Italian","When everybody says you are drunk, go to sleep."
"Italian","When a tree is falling, every one cries, down with it."
"Italian","When the wind is in the east, 'tis neither good for man nor beast."
"Italian","When the cat's away the mice dance."
"Italian","Wise lads and old fools were never good for anything."
"Italian","Who gives sell, sells dear, if the receiver be not a churl."
"Italian","Without debt without care."
"Italian","With wishing comes grieving."
"Italian","With the skin of the dog its bite is cured."
"Italian","With the Gospel men may become heretics."
"Italian","With the fox one must play the fox."
"Italian","With art and knavery we live through half the year; with knavery and art we live through the other."
"Italian","Wise men learn by other men's mistakes, fools by their own."
"Italian","If you scatter thorns, don't go barefoot."
"Italian","Woman (decides), impromptu; man, on reflection."
"Italian","The poison of asps is under their lips."
"Italian","Women always speak the truth, but not the whole truth."
"Italian","Willows are weak, yet serve to bind bigger wood."
"Italian","Whoever brings finds the door open for him."
"Italian","Who would not have feet set on his neck, let him not stoop."
"Italian","Who would have many friends let him test but few."
"Italian","Who wishes for a short Lent let him contract debts to be paid at Easter."
"Italian","Who troubles others has no rest himself."
"Italian","Who throws a stone at the sky, it falls back on his head."
"Italian","Who takes an eel by the tail and a woman at her word, may say he holds nothing."
"Italian","Who takes a lion at a distance fears a mole present."
"Italian","Wise men change their minds, fools never."
"Italian","Words are for women, actions for men."
"Italian","You must shift your sail with the wind."
"Italian","You must grease the wheels if you would have the car run."
"Italian","You have nobody to blame but yourself if you stumble more than once over the same stump."
"Italian","You have married a beauty? So much the worse for you."
"Italian","You cannot draw blood from a turnip."
"Italian","You cannot discover new oceans unless you have the courage to lose sight of the shore."
"Italian","You cannot damage a wrecked whip."
"Italian","Yielding is sometimes the best way of succeeding."
"Italian","Years know more than books."
"Italian","Wolves have howled at the moon for centuries, yet it is still there."
"Italian","Words won't feet cats."
"Italian","Who serves the public, serves no one."
"Italian","Words are female, deeds are male."
"Italian","Women, priests, and poultry, never have enough."
"Italian","Women, asses, and nuts, require strong hands."
"Italian","Women's tears are a fountain of craft."
"Italian","Women rouge that they may not blush."
"Italian","Women naturally deceive, weep and spin."
"Italian","Women know a point more than the devil."
"Italian","Women are wise impromptu, fools on reflection."
"Italian","Women and hens are lost by too much gadding."
"Italian","Years and sins are always more than owned."
"Italian","Who has no money must have no wishes."
"Italian","Who is in fear of every leaf must not go into the wood."
"Italian","Who is born a fool is never cured."
"Italian","Who hath no courage must have legs."
"Italian","Who hath little shame the world is all his own."
"Italian","Who has something is something."
"Italian","Who has patience sees his revenge."
"Italian","Who has patience may get fat thrushes at a farthing apiece."
"Italian","Who has nothing is nothing."
"Italian","Who has not is not."
"Italian","Who sows ill reaps ill."
"Italian","Who has no plagues makes himself some."
"Italian","Who keeps company with a wolf will learn to howl."
"Italian","Who has no money in his purse must have honey in his mouth."
"Italian","Who has no head should have legs."
"Italian","Who has no children does not know what love is."
"Italian","Who has never done thinking never begins doing."
"Italian","Who has love in his heart has spurs in his sides."
"Italian","Who has a tongue in his head can go all the world over."
"Italian","Who goes softly goes safely, and he that goes safely goes far."
"Italian","Who goes not, sees not; who proves not, believes not."
"Italian","Who goes himself is in earnest, who sends is indifferent."
"Italian","Who has no shame all the world is his own."
"Italian","Who loves to roam may lose his home."
"Italian","Travel broadens the mind."
"Italian","Who says A must say B."
"Italian","Who saves, saves for the cat."
"Italian","Who pays beforehand is served behindhand."
"Italian","Who paints me before blackens me behind."
"Italian","Who offends writes on sand; who is offended, on marble."
"Italian","Who moves, picks up, who stands still, dries up."
"Italian","Who more busy than they who have least to do?"
"Italian","Who makes the wolf his companion should carry a dog under his cloak."
"Italian","Who is in the right fears, who is in the wrong hopes."
"Italian","Who loves, believes."
"Italian","Who judges others, condemns himself."
"Italian","Who loves the tree loves the branch."
"Italian","Who lies down with dogs gets up with fleas."
"Italian","Who laughs at others' ills, has his own behind the door."
"Italian","Who knows not the game, let him not play."
"Italian","Who knows not how to pray let him go sail the sea."
"Italian","Who knows not how to flatter knows not how to talk."
"Italian","Who knows not how to dissemble knows not how to reign."
"Italian","Who knows most, knows least."
"Italian","Who knows most, forgives most."
"Italian","Who serves well and says nothing makes claim enough."
"Italian","Who loves, fears."
"Italian","The same fire purifies gold and consumes straw."
"Italian","Trust was a good man; Trust-not was a better."
"Italian","The smoke of my own house is better than another man's fire."
"Italian","The sick man sleeps when the debtor cannot."
"Italian","The sick man is free to say all."
"Italian","The shirt is nearer than the doublet."
"Italian","The ship does not go without the boat."
"Italian","The she-bear thinks her cubs pretty."
"Italian","The shadow of a lord is a cap for a fool."
"Italian","The scalded dog fears hot water, and afterwards, cold."
"Italian","The soldier's blood exalts the captain."
"Italian","The same fire which purifies gold consumes straw."
"Italian","The sound of the bell does not drive away rooks."
"Italian","The saint has no believers unless he works miracles."
"Italian","The rotten apple injures its neighbour."
"Italian","The roses fall, the thorns remain."
"Italian","The roses fall, and the thorns remain."
"Italian","The river passed the saint forgotten."
"Italian","The river does not swell with clear water."
"Italian","The right man comes at the right time."
"Italian","The right hand is slave to the left."
"Italian","The rich never have to seek out their relatives."
"Italian","The same hammer that breaks the glass forges the steel."
"Italian","The thief's wife does not always laugh."
"Italian","The whole ocean is made up of single drops."
"Italian","The whole hog or none."
"Italian","The white coat does not make the miller."
"Italian","The well-fed man does not believe in hunger."
"Italian","The water breaks out where it is not expected."
"Italian","The virtue of silence is a great piece of knowledge."
"Italian","The virtue of parents is in itself a great legacy."
"Italian","The venom is in the tail."
"Italian","The Trojans were wise too late."
"Italian","The soldier is well paid for doing mischief."
"Italian","The tree is not felled at one blow."
"Italian","The poor is hated by his neighbour, but the rich hath many friends."
"Italian","The thief is frightened even by a mouse."
"Italian","The tender surgeon makes the wound gangrene."
"Italian","The talkers sows, the listener reaps."
"Italian","The tail is always the hardest part to flay."
"Italian","The sun passes over filth and is not defiled."
"Italian","The sun loses nothing by shining into a puddle."
"Italian","The sun is still beautiful, though ready to set."
"Italian","The strongest is always in the right."
"Italian","The stitch is lost unless the thread be knotted."
"Italian","The tree is not to be judged of by its bark."
"Italian","The gown does not make the friar."
"Italian","The lazy pig does not eat ripe pears."
"Italian","The later comer is ill lodged."
"Italian","The last comer shuts the door."
"Italian","The kick of a mare never hurt a colt."
"Italian","The just man may sin with an open chest of gold before him."
"Italian","The Italians are wise before the act, the Germans in the act, the French after the act."
"Italian","The Italianised Englishman is a devil incarnate."
"Italian","The injurer never forgets."
"Italian","The house completed, possession defeated."
"Italian","The priest errs at the altar."
"Italian","The hardest step is that over the threshold."
"Italian","The lion and the lamb shall lie down together, but the lamb won't get much sleep."
"Italian","The good time comes but once."
"Italian","The good shepherd shears, not flays."
"Italian","The good seaman is known in bad weather."
"Italian","The golden key opens every door."
"Italian","The gardener's dog does not eat lettuce and will not let others eat it."
"Italian","The full cask makes no noise."
"Italian","The full belly does not believe in hunger."
"Italian","The fugitive finds everything impede him."
"Italian","The frog cannot out of her bog."
"Italian","The heart does not think all the mouth says."
"Italian","The moon does not heed the baying of dogs."
"Italian","The wolf is always left out of the reckoning."
"Italian","Your enemy makes you wiser."
"Italian","The point of the thorn is small, but hw who has felt it does not forget it."
"Italian","The pitcher that goes often to the fountain leaves there either its handle or its spout."
"Italian","The pan says to the pot: Keep off, or you'll smutch me."
"Italian","The myrtle is always a myrtle, though it be among nettles."
"Italian","The mountains are in labour, and bring forth a mouse."
"Italian","The moth does most mischief to the finest garment."
"Italian","The most prudent yields to the strongest."
"Italian","The liar is not believed when he speaks the truth."
"Italian","The more the fox is cursed, the more prey he catches."
"Italian","The light is painful to sore eyes."
"Italian","The mill does not grind without water."
"Italian","The man who never makes a mistake always takes orders from one who does."
"Italian","The man who loves is easy of belief."
"Italian","The man who lives only by hope will die with despair."
"Italian","The loquacity of fools is a lecture to the wise."
"Italian","The longest way round is the shortest way home."
"Italian","The lives of doctors, the souls of priests, and the property of lawyers, are in great danger."
"Italian","The lion is known by his claws."
"Italian","The lion had need of the mouse."
"Italian","Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord."
"Italian","The more you stroke the cat's back the more set sets up her tail."
"Italian","Thirst comes from drinking."
"Italian","'Tis good feasting in other men's houses."
"Italian","'Tis a silly sheep that confesses to the wolf."
"Italian","Time is an inaudible file."
"Italian","Tied to the sowre apple-tree."
"Italian","Tie me hand and foot and throw me among my own people."
"Italian","Through being too knowing the fox lost his tail."
"Italian","Three things drive a man out of doors: smoke, dropping water, and a shrew."
"Italian","You will not be loved if you think of yourself alone."
"Italian","Threats are arms for the threatened."
"Italian","There's no smoke with fire."
"Italian","Those who sleep with dogs will rise with fleas."
"Italian","To a young heart everything is sport."
"Italian","Think much, speak little and write less."
"Italian","Things are not as they are, but as they are regarded."
"Italian","Thick wine is better than clear water."
"Italian","They who sing through the summer must dance in the winter."
"Italian","They who shun the smoke often fall into the fire."
"Italian","They say, is a liar."
"Italian","There's none so blind as those who will not see."
"Italian","There's no turning a windmill with a pair of bellows."
"Italian","The wicked even hate vice in others."
"Italian","Though a lie be swift, truth overtakes it."
"Italian","To him who can take what thou hast, give what he asks."
"Italian","The friendship of the great is fraternity with lions."
"Italian","Translators, traitors."
"Italian","To whom you tell your secret you surrender your freedom."
"Italian","To the fallen tree, hatchets! hatchets!"
"Italian","To protest and knock one's head against the wall is what everybody can do."
"Italian","To promise and give nothing is comfort for a fool."
"Italian","To preserve friendship one must build walls."
"Italian","To know everything is to know nothing."
"Italian","To him who watches, everything reveals itself."
"Italian","To a crazy ship every wind is contrary."
"Italian","To him who gives you a pig you may well give a rasher."
"Italian","To a quick question give a slow answer."
"Italian","To have luck needs little wit."
"Italian","To have eye one on the cat and another on the frying-pan."
"Italian","To have ""Heard say"" is half a lie."
"Italian","To go safely through the world you must have the eye of a falcon, the ear of an ass, the face of an ape, the mouth of a pig, the shoulders of a camel, and the legs of a deer."
"Italian","To fall out of the frying-pan into the fire."
"Italian","To expect what never comes, to lie in bed and not sleep, to serve well and not be advanced, are three things to die of."
"Italian","To every saint his torch."
"Italian","To censure princes is perilous, and to praise them is lying."
"Italian","To become rich in this world, it needs only to turn one's back on God."
"Italian","There's no making the ass drink when his is not thirsty."
"Italian","To him who is determined it remains only to act."
"Italian","The world wags on with three things: doing, undoing, and pretending."
"Italian","There are some who see ill, and would like to see worse."
"Italian","There are some who despise pride with a greater pride."
"Italian","There are no birds in last year's nest."
"Italian","There are more ways to the wood than one."
"Italian","There are more threatened than slain."
"Italian","There are more thieves than gibbets."
"Italian","There are more asses than carry sacks."
"Italian","There are good and bad everywhere."
"Italian","The wrong-doer never lacks excuses."
"Italian","There's no thief like a bad book."
"Italian","The worst pig gets the best pear."
"Italian","There goes more than one ass to market."
"Italian","The world is like a staircase; some go up, others go down."
"Italian","The world is governed with little brains."
"Italian","The world is for him who has patience."
"Italian","The world belongs to the phlegmatic."
"Italian","The woman who gives is seldom good; the woman who accepts is in the power of the giver."
"Italian","The wolf is not always a wolf."
"Italian","The wolf is always said to be more terrible than he is."
"Italian","The wolf is always said to be bigger than he is."
"Italian","True love never grows old."
"Italian","The worst pig often gets the best pear."
"Italian","There is no fool like a learned fool."
"Italian","There's no great loss without some gain."
"Italian","There's no getting to heaven in a coach."
"Italian","There's no disputing about tastes."
"Italian","There never was a shoe however handsome that did not become an ugly slipper."
"Italian","There is no worse thief than a bad book."
"Italian","There is no worse robber than a bad book."
"Italian","There is no worse fruit than that which never ripens."
"Italian","There is no need to bind up one's head before it is broken."
"Italian","There is no making pancakes without breaking the eggs."
"Italian","There are tricks in all trades."
"Italian","There is no getting blood from a turnip."
"Italian","There are tricks in every trade."
"Italian","There is no dog, be he ever so wicked, but wags his tail."
"Italian","There is no beard so well shaven but another barber will find something more to shave from it."
"Italian","There is no appeal from time past."
"Italian","There is never enough where nought is left."
"Italian","There is never enmity between the cook and the butler."
"Italian","There is never a cry of ""Wolf!"" but the wolf is in the district."
"Italian","There is little peace in that house where the hen crows and the cock is mute."
"Italian","There is a cause for all things."
"Italian","There goes more to marriage than four bare legs in a bed."
"Italian","The wolf bemoans the sheep, and then eats it."
"Italian","There is no helping him who will not be advised."
"Italian","A waiting appetite kindles many a spite."
"Italian","All are brave when the enemy flies."
"Italian","Agree between yourselves (as to the time), quoth Arlotto, and I will make it rain."
"Italian","After the game, the king and the pawn go into the same box."
"Italian","Absence is a foe to love; out of sight out of mind."
"Italian","A woman's in pain, a woman's in woe, a woman is ill, when she likes to be so."
"Italian","A woman's answer is never to seek."
"Italian","A woman who loves to be at the window is like a bunch of grapes on the wayside."
"Italian","A stout heart overcomes ill fortune."
"Italian","A wise man and a fool together, know more than a wise man alone."
"Italian","All saints do not work miracles."
"Italian","A volunteer is worth twenty pressed men."
"Italian","A voluntary burthen is no burthen."
"Italian","A vagabond monk never spoke well of his convent."
"Italian","A tree often transplanted is never loaded with fruit."
"Italian","A threatened buffet is never well given."
"Italian","A thousand probabilities do not make one truth."
"Italian","A thing is never much talked of but there is some truth in it."
"Italian","An old horse for a young soldier."
"Italian","A wise man does at first what a fool must do at last."
"Italian","All the sheep are not for the wolf."
"Italian","Every one to his own calling, and the ox to the plough."
"Italian","An old dog will learn no tricks."
"Italian","An old dog does not grow used to the collar."
"Italian","An eagle will not catch flies."
"Italian","An ass's trot does not last long."
"Italian","An ass's tail will not make a sieve."
"Italian","An ambassador beareth no blame."
"Italian","Among thorns grow roses."
"Italian","All are not saints who go to church."
"Italian","All water runs to the sea."
"Italian","All is not butter that comes from the cow."
"Italian","All the honey a bee gathers during its lifetime doesn't sweeten its sting."
"Italian","All the flowers of tomorrow are in the seeds of yesterday."
"Italian","All the fingers are not alike."
"Italian","All the brains are not in one head."
"Italian","All that's fair must fade."
"Italian","All tastes are tastes."
"Italian","All ships leak: some amidships, some in the bows, some in the hold."
"Italian","A stick is soon found to beat a dog."
"Italian","Among men of honour a word is a bond."
"Italian","A meal without wine is like a day without sunshine."
"Italian","A new broom is good for three days."
"Italian","A near neighbour is better than a distant cousin."
"Italian","A muffled cat is no good mouser."
"Italian","A mouse will scare a thief."
"Italian","A misfortune and a friar seldom go alone."
"Italian","A mischievous dog must be tied short."
"Italian","A mill cannot grind with the water that is past."
"Italian","A thing done has a head. (The exultation of an ancient sculptor on his satisfactorily completing the head of his statue.)"
"Italian","A mild sheep is suck by every lamb."
"Italian","A place for everything, and everything in its place."
"Italian","A married man is a caged bird."
"Italian","A man's own opinion is never wrong."
"Italian","A man should learn to sail in all winds."
"Italian","A man of words and not of deeds Is like a garden full of weeds."
"Italian","A man of straw needs a woman of gold."
"Italian","A mad parish, a mad priest."
"Italian","A loving man, a jealous man."
"Italian","A lover's anger is short-lived."
"Italian","A mill and a wife are always in want of something."
"Italian","A sailor must have his eye trained to the rocks and sands as well as the north star."
"Italian","A starved town is soon forced to surrender."
"Italian","A solitary man is either a brute or an angel."
"Italian","A slothful man never has time."
"Italian","A sin confessed is half forgiven."
"Italian","A sin concealed is half forgiven."
"Italian","A shut mouth catches no flies."
"Italian","A short tail won't keep off flies."
"Italian","A sheep's bite is never more than skip deep."
"Italian","A new net won't catch an old bird."
"Italian","A scalded dog thinks cold water hot."
"Italian","A pitcher that goes oft to the well is broken at last."
"Italian","A saddle fits more backs than one."
"Italian","A runaway horse punishes himself."
"Italian","A rotting fish begins to stink at the head."
"Italian","A rainy morn oft brings a pleasant day."
"Italian","A ragged sack holds no grain, a poor man is not taken into counsel."
"Italian","A ragged coat finds little credit."
"Italian","A proud pauper and a rich miser are contemptible beings."
"Italian","An old quarrel is easily renewed."
"Italian","A scorpion never stung me but I cured myself with its grease."
"Italian","Even a horse, though he has four feet, stumbles."
"Italian","Evening red and morning grey help the traveler on his way; evening grey and morning red bring down rain upon his head."
"Italian","Even woods have ears."
"Italian","Even the sea. great as it is, grows calm."
"Italian","Even the just has need of help."
"Italian","Even the fool says a wise word sometimes."
"Italian","Even the dog gets bread by wagging his tail."
"Italian","Even old foxes are caught in the snare."
"Italian","Eggs have no business dancing with stones."
"Italian","Even among the apostles there was a Judas."
"Italian","Every day has it night."
"Italian","Even a frog would bite if it had teeth."
"Italian","Even a fool is thought wise if he keeps silent, and discerning if he holds his tongue."
"Italian","Even a fly has its spleen."
"Italian","Even a fly has its anger."
"Italian","Error is no payment."
"Italian","Entreat the churl and the bargain is broken off."
"Italian","Enough is enough, and too much spoils."
"Italian","An old flag is an honour to its captain."
"Italian","Even foxes are caught."
"Italian","Every hill has its valley."
"Italian","Every one thinks his own cross heaviest."
"Italian","Every one thinks himself without sin because he has not those of others."
"Italian","Every one thinks he has more than his share of brains."
"Italian","Every one praises his own saint."
"Italian","Every one likes justice in another's house, none in his own."
"Italian","Every one gives himself credit for more brains than he has, and less money."
"Italian","Every one finds fault with his own trade."
"Italian","Every one can navigate in fine weather."
"Italian","Ever drunk, ever dry."
"Italian","Every man has a fool in his sleeve."
"Italian","Every bird thinks its own nest beautiful."
"Italian","Every fox likes a henroost."
"Italian","Every fool wants to give advice."
"Italian","Every fool is wise when he holds his tongue."
"Italian","Every dog is allowed one bite."
"Italian","Every dog is a lion at home."
"Italian","Every ditch is full of your after-wits."
"Italian","Every ditch is full of after-wit."
"Italian","Eating teaches drinking."
"Italian","Every man has a good wife and a bad trade."
"Italian","Any publicity is good publicity."
"Italian","As you would have a daughter so choose a wife."
"Italian","As is the lover so is the beloved."
"Italian","As demure as an old whore at a christening."
"Italian","As both a good horse and a bad horse heed the spur, so both a good woman and a bad woman need the stick."
"Italian","Arms carry peace."
"Italian","Argus at home, a mole abroad."
"Italian","Appetite comes in eating."
"Italian","Empty vessels make most noise."
"Italian","Any water will put out fire."
"Italian","Asking costs little."
"Italian","Any port in a storm."
"Italian","Any plan is bad that cannot be changed."
"Italian","Any man can be a father, but it takes a special person to be a dad."
"Italian","Any excuse is good if it hold good."
"Italian","Anger increases love."
"Italian","Anger can be an expensive luxury."
"Italian","An unasked for excuse infers transgression."
"Italian","An ounce of discretion is better than a pound of knowledge."
"Italian","Anyone who is satisfied to stand still should not complain when others pass him."
"Italian","At table bashfulness is out of place."
"Italian","Eating and drinking Shouldn't keep us from thinking."
"Italian","Eaten bread is soon forgotten."
"Italian","Drop the jest when it is most amusing."
"Italian","Drink wine and let water go to the mill."
"Italian","Don't sell the bearskin before you have caught the bear."
"Italian","Don't reject the good together with the bad."
"Italian","Don't reckon your eggs before they are laid."
"Italian","Don't put too tight a ring on your finger."
"Italian","Ask my chum if I am a thief."
"Italian","Don't mention the cross to the devil."
"Italian","Ask which was born first, the hen or the egg."
"Italian","At last the foxes all meet at the furrier's."
"Italian","At an open chest the righteous sins."
"Italian","At a round table there is no dispute about place."
"Italian","At a great river be the last to pass."
"Italian","At a great pennyworth pause awhile."
"Italian","At a good bargain pause and ponder."
"Italian","At a dangerous passage yield precedence."
"Italian","A little truth makes the whole lie pass."
"Italian","Don't play with the bear if you don't want to be bit."
"Italian","By lamplight every country wench seems handsome."
"Italian","Conscience makes cowards of us all."
"Italian","Conscience is the chamber of justice."
"Italian","Conscience is as good as a thousand witnesses."
"Italian","Christmas comes but once a year."
"Italian","Choose neither a lover nor linen by candlelight."
"Italian","Chastise the good and he will mend, chastise the bad and he will grow worse."
"Italian","Cap in hand never did any harm."
"Italian","Blows are not given upon conditions."
"Italian","By night all cats are black."
"Italian","Counsel is nothing against love."
"Italian","By asking for the impossible, obtain the best possible."
"Italian","Buy the bed of a great debtor."
"Italian","Broad thongs may be cut from other men's leather."
"Italian","Borrowed garments never sit well."
"Italian","Borderers are either thieves or murderers."
"Italian","Boil stones in butter, and you may sip the broth."
"Italian","Boil not the pap before the child is born."
"Italian","A living dog is been than a dead lion."
"Italian","By their marks the bales are known."
"Italian","Curses are like processions: they return to whence they set out."
"Italian","Does your neighbour love you? Lend him a sequin."
"Italian","Do not judge of the ship from the land."
"Italian","Do not give the dog bread every time he wags his tail."
"Italian","Dirty water will quench fire."
"Italian","Dirty water does not wash clean."
"Italian","Different times different manners."
"Italian","Deliberate before you act."
"Italian","Delays are dangerous."
"Italian","Consolation, for the condemned, is to be one of many."
"Italian","Cut off the dog's tail, he remains a dog."
"Italian","Corsairs against corsairs, there is nothing to win but empty barrels."
"Italian","Cunning men's cloaks sometimes fall."
"Italian","Crooked by nature is never made straight by education."
"Italian","Criticizing another's garden doesn't keep the weeds out of your own."
"Italian","Criminals are punished, that others may be amended."
"Italian","Crimes may be secret, yet not secure."
"Italian","Credit lost is like a broken looking-glass."
"Italian","Credit is dead, bad pay killed it."
"Italian","Blessings brighten as they take their flight."
"Italian","Dearth foreseen never came."
"Italian","Be the same thing that ye wa'd be ca'd."
"Italian","Better be the head of a lizard than the tail of a dragon."
"Italian","Better be the head of a cat than the tail of a lion."
"Italian","Better be a bird of the wood than a bird in the cage."
"Italian","Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow."
"Italian","Better a lean agreement than a fat sentence."
"Italian","Bend the tree while it is young."
"Italian","Below the navel there is neither religion nor truth."
"Italian","Blue are the hills that are far away."
"Italian","Beat the churl and he will be your friend."
"Italian","Better have an egg to-day than a hen to-morrow."
"Italian","Be the horse good or bad always wear your spurs."
"Italian","Bad news is the first to come."
"Italian","Bad is the wool that cannot be died."
"Italian","Bad is the sack that will not bear patching."
"Italian","Bad grass does not make good hay."
"Italian","At the end of the work you may judge of the workmen."
"Italian","At the end of the game you'll see who's the winner."
"Italian","At the end of the game we see who wins."
"Italian","Believe a boaster as you would a liar."
"Italian","Between saying and doing, many a pair of shoes is worn out."
"Italian","Blessed is the misfortune that comes alone."
"Italian","Big flies break the spider's web."
"Italian","Beware the person with nothing to lose."
"Italian","Beware of vinegar made of sweet wine."
"Italian","Beware of the vinegar of sweet wine."
"Italian","Beware of one who has nothing to lose."
"Italian","Beware of a poor alchemist."
"Italian","Beware of ""Had I but known."""
"Italian","Better give than not to have to give."
"Italian","Between the hand and the mouth the soup is spilt."
"Italian","Better give the wool than the sheep."
"Italian","Better to fall from the window than the roof."
"Italian","Better to ask than go astray."
"Italian","Better slip with the foot than with the tongue."
"Italian","Better once than never."
"Italian","Better lose the saddle than the horse."
"Italian","Better is an enemy to well."
"Italian","Better have one bee than a host of flies."
"Italian","Dogs bark at hose they don't know."
"Italian","Between two cowards, he has the advantage who first detects the other."
"Italian","A gift with a kind countenance is a double present."
"Italian","A good paymaster does not hesitate to give good security."
"Italian","A good horse never lacks a saddle."
"Italian","A good horse cannot be of a bad color."
"Italian","A good horse and a bad horse need the spur; a good woman and a bad woman need the stick."
"Italian","A good cavalier never lacks a lance."
"Italian","A good appetite does not want sauce."
"Italian","A good anvil does not fear the hammer."
"Italian","Dog does not eat dog."
"Italian","A gold key opens every door."
"Italian","A great church and little devotion."
"Italian","A gift long waited for is sold, not given."
"Italian","A gift long expected is sold, not given."
"Italian","A gift delayed, and long expected, is not given, but sold dear."
"Italian","A full sack pricks up its ear."
"Italian","A friend, and look to thyself."
"Italian","A friend is not known till he is lost."
"Italian","A forced kindness deserves no thanks."
"Italian","A fools knows his own business better than a wise man knows that of others."
"Italian","A gold ring does not cure a felon."
"Italian","A hundred years cannot repair a moment's loss of honour."
"Italian","After one pope another is made."
"Italian","A little stream drives a great mill."
"Italian","A little stone overturns a great cart."
"Italian","A little man often casts a long shadow."
"Italian","A little gall make a great deal of honey bitter."
"Italian","A lean horse does not kick."
"Italian","A kitchen dog never was good for the chase."
"Italian","A jade eats as much as a good horse."
"Italian","A good thing lost is valued."
"Italian","A hungry ass eats any straw."
"Italian","A greased mouth cannot say no."
"Italian","A horse grown fat kicks."
"Italian","A horse falls though he has four legs."
"Italian","A heavy shower is soon over."
"Italian","A hard beginning maketh a good ending."
"Italian","A hair of the dog cures the bite."
"Italian","A great man will not trample on a worm, nor sneak to an emperor."
"Italian","A great liar has need of good memory."
"Italian","A fool finds no pleasure in understanding but delights in airing his own opinions."
"Italian","A hungry dog does not fear the stick."
"Italian","A bad agreement is better than a good lawsuit."
"Italian","A fool gives full vent to his anger, but a wise man keeps himself under control."
"Italian","A braying ass eats little hay."
"Italian","A book whose sale's forbidden all men rush to see, and prohibition turns one reader into three."
"Italian","A blind man is not judge of colours."
"Italian","A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush."
"Italian","A bird in the cage is worth a hundred at large."
"Italian","A beetle is a beauty in the eyes of his mother."
"Italian","A beautiful woman smiling, bespeaks a purse weeping."
"Italian","A cat pent up becomes a lion."
"Italian","A barking cur does not bite."
"Italian","A cat that licks the spit is not to be trusted with roast meat."
"Italian","The pope and a peasant know more than the pope together."
"Italian","If you are a mouse don't follow frogs."
"Italian","Don't go a-fishing to a famous stream."
"Italian","Don't cry fried fish before they are caught."
"Italian","Don't bite till you know whether it is bread or a stone."
"Italian","Don't believe in the saint unless he works miracles."
"Italian","Dogs bark, but the caravan goes on."
"Italian","A living ass is better than a dead doctor."
"Italian","A barking dog never bites."
"Italian","A dog that bites silently. [An insidious tradcuer. He would kill you with an air-gun.]"
"Italian","Dog won't eat dog."
"Italian","A fool carveth a piece of his heart to every one that sits near him."
"Italian","A fool can ask more questions than seven wise men can answer."
"Italian","A fine shot never killed a bird."
"Italian","A fat kitchen, a lean testament."
"Italian","A fat kitchen is next door to poverty."
"Italian","A farthing saved is twice earned."
"Italian","A drunk man's words are a sober man's thoughts."
"Italian","A candle loses nothing by lighting another candle."
"Italian","A drop of water breaks a stone."
"Italian","A fool finds pleasure in evil conduct, but a man of understanding delights in wisdom."
"Italian","A dog never bit me but I had some of his hair."
"Italian","A dog is never offended at being pelted with bones."
"Italian","A dead man does not make war."
"Italian","A cur's tail grows fast."
"Italian","A cracked pot never fell off the hook."
"Italian","A closed mouth catches no flies."
"Italian","A cloak is not made for a single shower of rain."
"Italian","A clear bargain, a dear friend."
"Italian","A drowning man would catch at razors."
"Italian","He who goes to the mill gets befloured."
"Italian","He who has a straw tail is always in fear of its catching fire."
"Italian","He who has a mind to beat a dog will easily find a stick."
"Italian","He who has a mate has a master."
"Italian","He who has a head won't want for a hat."
"Italian","He who has a good horse in his stable may go on foot."
"Italian","He who has a bad tongue should have good loins."
"Italian","He who has a bad name is half hanged."
"Italian","If the hen had not cackled, we should not know she had laid an egg."
"Italian","He who grasps too much holds nothing fast."
"Italian","He who has crossed the ford knows how deep it is."
"Italian","He who gives fair words feeds you with an empty spoon."
"Italian","He who gives bread to others' dogs is often barked at by his own."
"Italian","He who fails to plan, plans to fail."
"Italian","He who excuses, accuses himself."
"Italian","He who esteems none but himself is as happy as a king."
"Italian","He who enjoys good health is rich, though he knows it not."
"Italian","He who doth the injury never forgives the injured man."
"Italian","He who doth his own business defileth not his fingers."
"Italian","He who guesses well prophesies well."
"Italian","He who is an ass and thinks himself a stag, finds his mistake when he comes to leap the ditch."
"Italian","He that is drowning shouts though he be not heard."
"Italian","If the sun shines on me I care not for the moon."
"Italian","If the wife sins the husband is not innocent."
"Italian","If the young man knew, if the old man could, there is nothing but would be done."
"Italian","A wound foreseen paint the less."
"Italian","Every potter praises his pot, and most of all the one that is cracked."
"Italian","He who is meant to be a basket-carrier is born with the handle in his hand."
"Italian","He who is in hell knows not what heaven is."
"Italian","He who has a tongue, may go to Rome."
"Italian","He who is embarked with the devil must make the passage in his company."
"Italian","He who has been stung by a serpent is afraid of a lizard."
"Italian","He who in under cover when it rains is a great fool if he stirs."
"Italian","He who hunts two hares does not catch the one and lets the other escape."
"Italian","He who has teeth has no bread, and he who has bread has no teeth."
"Italian","He who has scalded himself once blows the next time."
"Italian","He who has money to throw away, let him employ workmen, and not stand by."
"Italian","He who has loaves has dogs."
"Italian","He who has land has war."
"Italian","He who does as he likes has no headache."
"Italian","He who is guilty believes that all men speak ill of him."
"Italian","He that never fails never grows rich."
"Italian","He who does the wrong forgets it, but not he who receives it."
"Italian","He that will not strive in this world should not have come into it."
"Italian","He that wants should not be bashful."
"Italian","He that stands may fall."
"Italian","He that shows his passion, tells his enemy where he may hit him."
"Italian","He that shows his money shows his judgment."
"Italian","He that seeks, finds, and sometimes what he would rather not."
"Italian","He that seeks to have many friends never has any."
"Italian","He that would beat his dog can easily find a stick."
"Italian","He that paints a flower does not give it perfume."
"Italian","He that would have a thing done quickly and well must do it himself."
"Italian","He that makes himself dirt is trod on by the swine."
"Italian","He that keeps another man's dog shall have nothing left him but the line."
"Italian","He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life; but he that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction."
"Italian","He that jokes, confesses."
"Italian","He that is kinder than he was wont hath a design upon thee."
"Italian","He that is in fault is in suspicion."
"Italian","He that is good for something is the ass of the public."
"Italian","He that is drunk is gone from home."
"Italian","He that passeth by, and meddleth with strife belonging not to him, is like one that taketh a dog by the ears."
"Italian","He who builds on another's ground loses his stone and mortar."
"Italian","If someone betrays you once, it's his fault. If he betrays you twice, it's your fault."
"Italian","He who demands does not command."
"Italian","He who decries, wants to buy."
"Italian","He who climbs to high is near a fall."
"Italian","He who chastises one threatens a hundred."
"Italian","He who cannot revenge himself is weak, he who will not is contemptible."
"Italian","I too can lead the geese to water when it rains."
"Italian","He who buys what he cannot pay for, sells what he would rather not."
"Italian","He that would be ill served should keep plenty of servants."
"Italian","He who buys betimes buys cheaply."
"Italian","He who does not when he can, cannot when he will."
"Italian","He who builds by the roadside has many surveyors."
"Italian","He who builds a house in the market-place, builds either too high or too low."
"Italian","He who blows dust fills his eyes with it."
"Italian","He who begins many things finishes few."
"Italian","He who begins ill finishes worse."
"Italian","He wastes his tears who weeps before the judge."
"Italian","He that would heal a wound must not handle it."
"Italian","He that would have the fruit, must climb the tree."
"Italian","He who buys by the pennyworth keeps his own house and other men's too."
"Italian","He who would be rich in a year gets hanged in six months."
"Italian","He would sell even his share of the sun."
"Italian","He would not give the devil a knife to cut his throat."
"Italian","He would drown in a spoonful of water."
"Italian","He would break his neck against a straw."
"Italian","He would be a good one to send for death."
"Italian","He who would stop every man's mouth must have a great deal of meal."
"Italian","He who would rest must work."
"Italian","If the hours are long enough and the pay is short enough, someone will say it's women's work."
"Italian","He who would have clear water should go to the fountain head."
"Italian","He's a friend at sneezing-time--the most that can be got from him is a ""God bless you."""
"Italian","He who would be long an old man must begin betimes."
"Italian","He who will not serve one master must needs serve many."
"Italian","He who wants milk should not sit in the middle of a field and wait for a cow to back up to him."
"Italian","He who wants his dog killed has only to say he's mad."
"Italian","He who touches pitch defiles himself."
"Italian","He who throws away money with his hands will seek it with his feet."
"Italian","He who tells his own affairs will hardly keep secret those of others."
"Italian","He who sweats more in peace, bleeds less in war."
"Italian","He who would relish his food must not see it cooked."
"Italian","Hell is crowded with ungrateful wretches."
"Italian","I speak to you, daughter; hear it daughter-in-law."
"Italian","I saw you at Lucca, I knew you at Pisa."
"Italian","I being satisfied, the world is satisfied."
"Italian","Hunger transmutes beans into almonds."
"Italian","How can the cat help it if the maid be a fool?"
"Italian","Hour by hour time departs."
"Italian","Homer sometimes nods."
"Italian","Home, dear home, small as thou art, to me thou art a palace."
"Italian","He would skin a flint."
"Italian","Hide not the truth from your confessor, your doctor, or your lawyer."
"Italian","He would slaughter a bug to drink its blood."
"Italian","Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned."
"Italian","Hell and Chancery are always open."
"Italian","Hedges have no eyes, but they have ears."
"Italian","Hear the other side, and believe little."
"Italian","Health without money is a half-malady."
"Italian","He's an ill cook that cannot lick his own fingers."
"Italian","He's a wise man that leads passion by the bridle."
"Italian","He who sups with the Devil should have a long spoon."
"Italian","High birth is a poor dish on the table."
"Italian","If I have lost the ring I still have the fingers."
"Italian","He who swears is a liar."
"Italian","He who knows little quickly tells it."
"Italian","He who knows but little quickly tells it."
"Italian","He who is without debt is without credit."
"Italian","He who is unable is always willing."
"Italian","He who is the offender is never the forgiver."
"Italian","He who is the cause of his own misfortune may bewail it himself."
"Italian","He who is of the craft can discourse about it."
"Italian","He who knows nothing knows enough, if he knows how to be silent."
"Italian","I will do what I can, and a little less, to be able to continue at it."
"Italian","He who knows nothing never doubts."
"Italian","If I sleep, I sleep for myself; if I work, I know not for whom."
"Italian","If I went to sea I should find it dry."
"Italian","If it rained maccaroni, what a fine time for gluttons!"
"Italian","If it walks like a duck, quacks like a duck, looks like a duck, it must be a duck."
"Italian","If it were not for hope, the heart would break."
"Italian","If it were not for the belly, the back might wear gold."
"Italian","If it's not one thing, it's another."
"Italian","If pride were an art, how many doctors we should have."
"Italian","He who is not impatient is not in love."
"Italian","He who praises himself befouls himself."
"Italian","He who buys the broom can also buy the handle."
"Italian","He who sups with the devil must have a long spoon."
"Italian","He who succeeds is reputed wise."
"Italian","He who sleeps well does not feel the fleas."
"Italian","He who sleeps catches no fish."
"Italian","He who sings drives away sorrow."
"Italian","He who serves two masters must lie to one of them."
"Italian","He who serves the public has a sorry master."
"Italian","He who knows nothing doubts nothing."
"Italian","He who risks nothing can gain nothing."
"Italian","He who suspects is seldom at fault."
"Italian","He who makes himself a servant is expected to remain a servant."
"Italian","He who makes himself a dove is eaten by the hawk."
"Italian","He who looks on has two-thirds of the game."
"Italian","He who lives among wolves learns to howl."
"Italian","He who likes drinking is always talking of wine."
"Italian","He who lets the goat be laid on his shoulders is soon after forced to carry the cow."
"Italian","He who laughs overmuch may have an aching heart."
"Italian","He who knows the road can ride full trot."
"Italian","He who says nothing never lies."
"Italian","For the buyer a hundred eyes are too few, for the seller one is enough."
"Italian","Fire drives the wasp out of its nest."
"Italian","Good watch prevents misfortune."
"Italian","Fire is not quenched with fire."
"Italian","Good ware was never dear."
"Italian","Flies don't light on a boiling pot."
"Italian","Flies flock to the lean horse."
"Italian","For a wife and a horse go to your neighbour."
"Italian","Friends in need are friends indeed."
"Italian","For extreme ills extreme remedies."
"Italian","Feather by feather the goose is plucked."
"Italian","For the flying enemy a golden bridge."
"Italian","He that is always right is always wrong."
"Italian","Forbidden fruit is sweetest."
"Italian","He who can wait obtains what he wishes."
"Italian","Fortune helps fools."
"Italian","Fortune, and go to sleep."
"Italian","Fortunes, heaven-born gifts."
"Italian","Every truth is not good to be told."
"Italian","For an honest man half his wits are enough; the whole is too little for a knave."
"Italian","Evil does are evil dreaders."
"Italian","Every vine must have its stake."
"Italian","Every wind does not shake down the nut."
"Italian","Everybody's friend, nobody's friend."
"Italian","Everyone thinks his own cross is heaviest."
"Italian","Everything is good for something."
"Italian","Everything is good in its season."
"Italian","Everything is of every year."
"Italian","Everything may be borne except good fortune."
"Italian","Feed a cold and starve a fever."
"Italian","Friendships are cheap when they can be brought by doffing the hat."
"Italian","February fill dyke, be it black or be it white."
"Italian","Extravagant offers are a kind of denial."
"Italian","Fair promises bind fools."
"Italian","Fair words won't feed a cat."
"Italian","Fair words, but look to your purse."
"Italian","Faith in a lord, a cap for the fool."
"Italian","Far from the eyes, far from the heart."
"Italian","Fat head, less brains."
"Italian","Friends may meet, but mountains never greet."
"Italian","Evil be to him who evil thinks."
"Italian","Gifts are often losses."
"Italian","Gnaw the bone which is fallen to thy lot."
"Italian","Gluttony kills more than the sword."
"Italian","Glowworms are not lanterns."
"Italian","Give to him that has."
"Italian","Give time time."
"Italian","Give the wise man a hint and leave him to act."
"Italian","Give the priest drink, for the clerk is thirsty."
"Italian","Friar Modest never was a prior."
"Italian","Give a clown your finger he'll grasp your fist."
"Italian","Go to the sea if you would fish well."
"Italian","From those I trust God guard me, from those I mistrust I will guard myself."
"Italian","From the same flower the bee extracts honey and the wasp gall."
"Italian","From still water God keep me; from running water I will keep myself."
"Italian","From snow whether cooked or pounded you will get nothing but water."
"Italian","From shirtsleeves to shirtsleeves in three generations."
"Italian","From saying to doing is a long way."
"Italian","From a bad paymaster take straw--i.e. any trifle."
"Italian","Frightened at bugbears."
"Italian","Give a dog an ill name, and you may as well hang him."
"Italian","God save you from a bad neighbour, and from a beginner on the fiddle."
"Italian","Friends tie their purses with a spider's web."
"Italian","Friendship should be unpicked, not rent."
"Italian","Good riding at two anchors men have told, For it one break, the other yet may hold."
"Italian","Good repute is like the cypress: once cut, it never puts forth leaf again."
"Italian","Good or bad we must all live."
"Italian","Good is good, but better beats it."
"Italian","Good blood never lies."
"Italian","Gold does not buy everything."
"Italian","Go abroad and you'll hear news of home."
"Italian","God sends cold according to the clothes."
"Italian","Go softly at bad bits of road."
"Italian","God save me from one who does not drink."
"Italian","God save me from him who studies but one book."
"Italian","God save me from him who has but one occupation."
"Italian","God preserve you from one who eats without drinking."
"Italian","God keep me from my friends, from my enemies I will keep myself."
"Italian","God heals and the doctor has the thanks."
"Italian","God gives a curst one short horns."
"Italian","Everything new is beautiful."
"Italian","God sends nothing but what can be borne."
"Italian","He takes out a nail and puts in a pin."
"Italian","He is not a thorough wise man who cannot play the fool on occasion."
"Italian","Every promise is a debt."
"Italian","He is not a man who cannot say no."
"Italian","He is not a good mason who refuses any stone."
"Italian","He is miserable once, who feels it; but twice, who fear it before it comes."
"Italian","He is miserable indeed that must lock up his miseries."
"Italian","He is master of another man's life who is indifferent to his own."
"Italian","He is in no place who is everywhere."
"Italian","Evil communications corrupt good manners."
"Italian","He is not free who drags his chain after him."
"Italian","Every time the sheep bleats it loseth a mouthful."
"Italian","He that at twenty is not, at thirty knows not, and at forty has not, will never be, nor ever know, nor ever have."
"Italian","He that buys the office of magistrate must of necessity sell justice."
"Italian","He sells the bird on the branch."
"Italian","He that exceeds his commission must answer for it at his own cost."
"Italian","He that has but one pig easily fattens it."
"Italian","He is like the anchor that is always in the sea, yet does not learn to swim."
"Italian","He is in search of a ram with five feet."
"Italian","He sets the wolf to guard the sheep."
"Italian","He knows well where the thorn pricks him."
"Italian","He saith little that loveth much."
"Italian","He runs far who never turns."
"Italian","He ought not to complain of the sea who returns to it a second time."
"Italian","He must stoop that has a low door."
"Italian","He measures others with his own yard."
"Italian","He may lie safely who comes from afar."
"Italian","He loves well who does not forget."
"Italian","He laughs well who laughs last."
"Italian","He is not a wise man who cannot play the fool on occasions."
"Italian","He knows where the devil carries his tail."
"Italian","He is not an honest man who has burned his tongue and does not tell the company that the soup is hot."
"Italian","He is wise who learns at another's cost."
"Italian","He is well constituted who grieves not for what he has not, and rejoices for what he has."
"Italian","He is washing the crow."
"Italian","He is very blind who cannot see the sun."
"Italian","He is rich enough who does not want."
"Italian","He is not poor that hath not much, but he that craves much."
"Italian","He is not happy who knows it not."
"Italian","He that has a head of glass must not throw stones at another."
"Italian","He knows where the devil has his tail."
"Italian","Handsome is not what is handsome, but what pleases."
"Italian","He that by the plough would thrive, Himself must either hold or drive."
"Italian","Have not all your eggs in one nest."
"Italian","Have luck, and sleep."
"Italian","Hatred renewed is worse than at first."
"Italian","Hard work never did anyone any harm."
"Italian","Hard words break no bones."
"Italian","Hard upon hard never made a good wall."
"Italian","Hard is a new law imposed on old licence."
"Italian","Happy is the country which has no history."
"Italian","Happy is the bride that the sun shines on."
"Italian","Have two strings to your bow."
"Italian","Handsome women generally fall to the lot of ugly men."
"Italian","Every reed will not make a pipe."
"Italian","Half a brain is enough for him who says little."
"Italian","Greater fools than they of Zago, who dunged the steeple to make it grow."
"Italian","He that is afraid of the devil does not grow rich."
"Italian","Great smoke, little roast."
"Italian","Great griefs are mute."
"Italian","Great cry and little wool, as the man said who shaved the sow."
"Italian","Grease to the wheels."
"Italian","Every saint has his festival."
"Italian","Every shop has its trick."
"Italian","Every ten years one man has need of another."
"Italian","Every time history repeats itself the price goes up."
"Italian","Happy is she who is in love with an old dotard."
"Italian","He cries out before he is hurt."
"Italian","He is a fool who loses the flight for the leap."
"Italian","He is a fool who does not know from what quarter the wind blows."
"Italian","He is a fool who boasts of four things: that he has good wine, a good horse, a handsome wife, and plenty of money."
"Italian","He hauls at a long rope who expects another's death."
"Italian","He has done like the Perugian who, when his head was broken, ran home for his helmet."
"Italian","He hangs the May-branch at every door. (Alluding to the Italian custom of young men hanging out May-branches overnight before the door of their mistress."
"Italian","He got out of the mud and fell into the river."
"Italian","He gains much who loses a vain hope."
"Italian","He devil is not so ugly as he is painted."
"Italian","Every rose has its thorn."
"Italian","He cries wine, and sells vinegar."
"Italian","He is a very sorry barber who has but one comb."
"Italian","He cannot lead a good life who serves without wages."
"Italian","He begins to grow bad who believes himself good."
"Italian, Portuguese","The father a saint the son a devil."
"Italian, Portuguese","Make yourself honey and the flies will eat you."
"Italian, Portuguese","In at one ear and out at the other."
"Italian, Portuguese","Grief pent up will burst the heart."
"Italian, Portuguese","Grief for a dead wife lasts to the door."
"Italian, Portuguese","Do good, and care not to whom."
"Italian, Portuguese","Better gain in mud than lose in gold."
"Italian, Portuguese","A word to the wise is enough."
"Italian, Portuguese","A liar is sooner caught than a cripple."
"Italian, Portuguese","What is bought is cheaper than a gift."
"Italian, Portuguese, Spanish","He is a fool who thinks that another does not think."
"Italian, Portuguese, Spanish","A guest and a fish stink in three days."
"Italian, Portuguese, Spanish","Get a name to rise early, and you may lie all day."
"Italian, Portuguese, Spanish","He is a good dog who goes to church."
"Italian, Portuguese, Spanish","Speak not ill of the year until it is past."
"Italian, Portuguese, Spanish","Speak not of my debts unless you mean to pay them."
"Italian, Portuguese, Spanish","The dog wags his tail, not for you, but for your bread."
"Italian, Portuguese, Spanish","Where the river is deepest it makes the least noise."
"Italian, Portuguese, Spanish","Where the wolf gets one lamb he looks for another."
"Italian, Portuguese, Spanish","Get a good name and go to sleep."
"Italian, Spanish","He who has a glass roof should not throw stones at his neighbour's."
"Italian, Spanish","The feast passes and the fool remains."
"Italian, Spanish","Fear guards the vineyard."
"Italian, Spanish","Who has nothing fears nothing."
"Italian, Spanish","Where there's a will there's a way."
"Italian, Spanish","Water past will not turn the mill."
"Italian, Spanish","There is no worse joke than a true one."
"Italian, Spanish","The mouse does not leave the cat's house with a bellyful."
"Italian, Spanish","The hare starts from where it is least expected."
"Italian, Spanish","The gallows was made for the unlucky."
"Italian, Spanish","The devil turns away from a closed door."
"Italian, Spanish","The bell does not go to mass, and yet calls every one to it."
"Italian, Spanish","Call me not olive before you see me gathered."
"Italian, Spanish","A beard well lathered is half shaved."
"Italian, Spanish","Absence is a foe to love; away from the eyes, away from the heart."
"Italian, Spanish","The gallows will have its own at last."
"Italian, Spanish","Assurance is two-thirds success."
"Italian, Spanish","Since the house is on fire, let us warm ourselves."
"Italian, Spanish","Call no man happy till he dies."
"Italian, Spanish","Call not a surgeon before you are wounded."
"Italian, Spanish","He preaches well who lives well."
"Italian, Spanish","None so deaf as he that will not hear."
"Italian, Spanish","Associate with the good and you will be one of them."
"Ivorian","Too much discussion will lead to a row."
"Ivorian","Taking aim for too long can ruin your eyes."
"Ivorian","Taking water from the same well doesn't make all the wives' gravy taste good."
"Ivorian","Teeth will never quarrel with the tongue."
"Ivorian","The death of an elderly man is like a burning library."
"Ivorian","The panther and the sheep never hunt together."
"Ivorian","The stranger has big eyes but he doesn't see anything."
"Ivorian","Until the snake is dead, do not drop the stick."
"Ivorian","Their mosquito won't bite me."
"Ivorian","Mutual gifts cement friendship."
"Ivorian","Two flavors confuse the palate."
"Ivorian","The twig that falls in the water will never become a fish."
"Ivorian","He who cannot sleep can still dream."
"Ivorian","Mutual affection is when each gives his share."
"Ivorian","A bad son gives his mother a bad name."
"Ivorian","A friend will wipe away sweat but not blood."
"Ivorian","A poor man's sheep will never get fat."
"Ivorian","Everybody loves a fool, but nobody wants him for a son."
"Ivorian","He who gives a monkey as a present doesn't keep hold of its tail."
"Ivorian","He who talks incessantly, talks nonsense."
"Ivorian","If you are not going to bite, don't show your teeth."
"Ivorian","In the village that you don't know, the chickens have teeth."
"Ivorian","In the villages where there are no oxen, the sheep's feet seem strong."
"Ivorian","Ingratitude is sooner or later fatal to its author."
"Ivorian","Better a bad wife than an empty house."
"Ivory Coast","Mutual affection gives each his share."
"Ivory Coast","Mutual gifts cement friendship."
"Ivory Coast","A little leaven smoothes away the whole lump."
"Ivory Coast","It takes two to make a quarrel."
"Ivory Coast","He who talks incessantly talks nonsense."
"Ivory Coast","Too much discussion means a quarrel."
"Jabo","If one comes to a fork of the road in a strange country, she stops to think."
"Jabo","Only when a tree has grown can you tie your cow to it."
"Jabo","We decide our affairs, then we rest them with God."
"Jabo","We decide our affairs, then we rest them with God."
"Jamaican","No call alligator long mouth till you pass him."
"Jamaican","If you saw what the river carried, you would never drink the water."
"Jamaican","Prayer only from the mouth is no prayer."
"Jamaican","Save money and money will save you."
"Jamaican","Sarry fi maaga dog, maaga dog tu'n 'roun' bit yu."
"Jamaican","Plantain ripe, can't green again."
"Jamaican","Rockstone a riva battam noh know' sun hot."
"Jamaican","Rat belly full, potato have skin."
"Jamaican","Puss an' Dog noh have di same luck."
"Jamaican","Pretty rose got macca jook."
"Jamaican","The higher the monkey climbs the more him expose."
"Jamaican","Prayer from de mout' alone is no prayer."
"Jamaican","Play wid puppy, Puppy lick yu mouth."
"Jamaican","Scratch an old woman's back and she will let you taste her pepper pot."
"Jamaican","Pudden cyaa bake widout fiah."
"Jamaican","Sensa fowl no wan fedder, but him want carn."
"Jamaican","Sleep has no master."
"Jamaican","Sleepy turtles never catch up with the sunrise."
"Jamaican","Some people clean a tap an' dutty underneath."
"Jamaican","Spit in the sky, it falls in your eye."
"Jamaican","Ston a riva battan nuh know sun hat"
"Jamaican","T'ief no love fi si t'ief carry long bag."
"Jamaican","Peppa bu'n hot, but ih good fi curry."
"Jamaican","The black man steals just half of very little, but the white man steals the whole sugar plantation."
"Jamaican","No Ketchie, ho habie."
"Jamaican","The hungry belly and the full belly do not walk the same road."
"Jamaican","The hungry fowl wakes early."
"Jamaican","That which you do not know is older than you."
"Jamaican","No hang you clothes all pon one nail."
"Jamaican","Marriage has teeth and it bites hard."
"Jamaican","Marriage has teeth, and him bite very hot."
"Jamaican","Me no call you no come"
"Jamaican","Meat that the cat brings in never gets to your plate."
"Jamaican","Mi come here fi drink milk, mi noh come here fi count cow."
"Jamaican","Monkey mus' know weh 'im gwine put 'im tail, before 'im order trousiz."
"Jamaican","Nanny-goat neber ?cratch him back till him see wall."
"Jamaican","Nebber mek you sail too big fe you ship."
"Jamaican","Neva si, come si."
"Jamaican","New broom sweep clean, but de ole broom know de corner."
"Jamaican","No all foot in a boot a good foot."
"Jamaican","No call alligator long mouth till you pass him."
"Jamaican","No put youself in a barrel when match box can hol you."
"Jamaican","Manners tek yu thru' di worl'."
"Jamaican","Pay the doctor, praise the Lord."
"Jamaican","If yu cyaa tek di heat, get out a di kitchen."
"Jamaican","Virtue never goes far without the company of idleness."
"Jamaican","No mek one donkey choke you."
"Jamaican","The nearer the bone, the sweeter the meat."
"Jamaican","Noh care how boar hog try fi hide under sheep wool, 'im grunt always betray 'im."
"Jamaican","Noh cup noh brok, noh coffee noh trow weh."
"Jamaican","Noh put yu cap wh? yu caang reach it."
"Jamaican","Not everything that is good to eat is good to talk about."
"Jamaican","Not everything you hear is good for conversation."
"Jamaican","One finger can't ketch louse"
"Jamaican","One, one cocoa full basket."
"Jamaican","One-eye man a king a blind country."
"Jamaican","No ebery chain you hear a fe rollin'calf."
"Jamaican","Words in mouth, no load upon head."
"Jamaican","When rat like fi romp 'roun' puss jaw, one diay 'im gwine en up inna puss craw."
"Jamaican","When the affected lady is doing well she eats her peas with a pin."
"Jamaican","When visitors come a wi fireside, wi mek wi pot smell nice."
"Jamaican","When water trow weh i' cyaa pick up."
"Jamaican","When you buy beef, you buy bones; when you buy land, you buy rocks."
"Jamaican","When you go to a donkey's house, don't talk about ears."
"Jamaican","When you point your finger at someone, look where the other fingers point."
"Jamaican","When your own funeral is approaching, you don't pick and choose your grave diggers."
"Jamaican","When yu go a fireside an' see food, eat half an' lef' half."
"Jamaican","When yu go a Jackass yard, yu noh fi chat 'bout big iyaz."
"Jamaican","Wherever there are bones, there are dogs."
"Jamaican","Too much callaloo, mek peppa-pot stew bitter."
"Jamaican","Words die and men keep on living."
"Jamaican","When Jackass back strong, dem overload 'im hamper."
"Jamaican","You can say anything to a man with a full stomach."
"Jamaican","You can stop a bird from flying over you, but you can't stop it building a nest."
"Jamaican","You can't have two faces under one hat."
"Jamaican","You can't prevent a bird from flying over your head, but you can prevent him from making a nest in your head."
"Jamaican","You can't take the milk back from the coffee."
"Jamaican","You cannot tie up a dog with a chain of sausages."
"Jamaican","You nebber see kicking' cow widout kickin'calf."
"Jamaican","You nebber see pop-gun kill alligator."
"Jamaican","You shake a man's hand, you don't shake his heart."
"Jamaican","You shake man's hand, you no shake his heart."
"Jamaican","You will often see a high collar above an empty stomach."
"Jamaican","Who ha' fingernail no ha' itch, and who ha' itch no ha' fingernail."
"Jamaican","Wha costs nutting gib good weight."
"Jamaican","The spider and the fly can't make a deal."
"Jamaican","The umbrella was made for rainy days, the white man uses it for the sun."
"Jamaican","Them short fe singer when dem put peacock in a choir."
"Jamaican","Those who can't dance say the music is no good."
"Jamaican","Those who cant dance blame it on the music."
"Jamaican","Tideh fi mi, tomorrow fi yu."
"Jamaican","Tired feet always say that the path is long."
"Jamaican","Today can't catch tomorrow."
"Jamaican","Too much hurry, and get there tomorrow; take time, get there today."
"Jamaican","Walk better dan sidong."
"Jamaican","Want all, loose all."
"Jamaican","When kitchen dresser tumble dung, maaga dog laugh."
"Jamaican","We run t'ings, t'ings noh run we."
"Jamaican","When Jackass smell corn, 'im gallop."
"Jamaican","Wha sweet nanny-goat a go run him belly."
"Jamaican","Wha' noh poison, fatten."
"Jamaican","What darg see him bark all night, ramgoat see it no trouble him."
"Jamaican","What de good a education if him got no sense?"
"Jamaican","When a dog has money, he buys cheese."
"Jamaican","When ashes cole darg sleep in dey."
"Jamaican","When bull ole him feed a fence side."
"Jamaican","When cockroach get in a trouble, him well glad fe fun go hide a fowl-house."
"Jamaican","When crab walk too much him los' him claw."
"Jamaican","When crab walk too much, 'im lose 'im claw."
"Jamaican","When herring mauger him bone show."
"Jamaican","The soldiers' blood, the general's reputation."
"Jamaican","Want i' want i', cyaa get i' an' get i' get i', no want i'."
"Jamaican","Cuss-cuss noh bore hole a mi skin."
"Jamaican","Ebery day a fishing-day, but no ebery day fe ketch fish."
"Jamaican","Bushes have ears, walls have eyes."
"Jamaican","Cap no fit you, you no tek i' up."
"Jamaican","Chicken deh merry, Hawk deh near."
"Jamaican","Chip neber fly far from de block."
"Jamaican","Clothes cover up character."
"Jamaican","Cockroach neber so drunk him walk a fowl yard."
"Jamaican","Cockroach nuh business inna fowl fight."
"Jamaican","Cow non dead him wi shak him tail"
"Jamaican","Cows do not indulge in horseplay."
"Jamaican","Cows have no business in horseplay."
"Jamaican","Boastin' man brudder a de liar."
"Jamaican","Cuss-cuss never bore hole a man' kin."
"Jamaican","Blood follow vein."
"Jamaican","Cyaa tan fur, t'row saal inna pat"
"Jamaican","Darg-flea tell him pickeny him mustn't say him dead till him ketch pon finger nail."
"Jamaican","Daylight sho t'rough lilly keyhole."
"Jamaican","De bes a field mus' hab weed."
"Jamaican","De higher monkey climb de more him expose."
"Jamaican","De tune you playing no de one I dancing."
"Jamaican","Dem give yu basket fi carry water."
"Jamaican","Di daakes' part a di night, a when diay soon light."
"Jamaican","Duppy knwo who fi frighten."
"Jamaican","Eat fam'bly bittle but no cut fam'bly 'tory."
"Jamaican","Eat with the devil but give him a long spoon."
"Jamaican","Crab'n choke puppy."
"Jamaican","Alligator lay egg, but 'im noh fowl."
"Jamaican","Manners mek di man."
"Jamaican","It' better fi lose yu timedan yu character."
"Jamaican","A good conscience is better than a big wage."
"Jamaican","A greedy mek fly follow coffin go a hole."
"Jamaican","A lawyer looks at you with one eye, but he looks at your pocket with two."
"Jamaican","A little axe can cut down a big tree."
"Jamaican","A man with trousers that are too short should wear long suspenders."
"Jamaican","A noh every mango got maggige."
"Jamaican","A noh siame diay leaf drop a river bottom it rotten."
"Jamaican","A pound a fret can't pay an ounce a debt."
"Jamaican","Ackee lub fat, ocra lub salt"
"Jamaican","Bucket wid hole a battam have no business a riverside."
"Jamaican","Alligator lay egg but him no fowl."
"Jamaican","A new broom sweeps clean, but an old broom knows every corner."
"Jamaican","Alligator shouldn' call hog long mout."
"Jamaican","An old debt is better than an old grudge."
"Jamaican","Bad luck wos dan Obeah."
"Jamaican","Barking saves biting."
"Jamaican","Beautiful 'ooman, beautiful trouble."
"Jamaican","Beautiful woman, beautiful trouble."
"Jamaican","Beauty widout grace like rose widout smell."
"Jamaican","Befo' darg go widout supper, him nyam cockroach."
"Jamaican","Before you married keep you' two eye open; after you married, shut one."
"Jamaican","Beggar beg from beggar him nebber get rich"
"Jamaican","Behind the dog it is ""dog,"" in front of it, it's ""mister dog."""
"Jamaican","All kind of fish eat man, only shark get blame."
"Jamaican","Keep your secret in your own gourdy."
"Jamaican","If chickens were judges, cockroaches would be sentenced."
"Jamaican","If stars were loaves, many people would sleep out."
"Jamaican","If you cannot dance, you will say the drumming is poor."
"Jamaican","If you crape gourdy, you fin' worm-hole."
"Jamaican","If you don't take it, you don't have it."
"Jamaican","If you follow a fool, you're a fool yourself."
"Jamaican","If you go a tump-a-foot dance, you must dance tump-a-foot."
"Jamaican","If you saw what the river carried, you would never drink the water."
"Jamaican","If you want half a bread, beg smaddy buy it, but if yu want a wan, buy it yuself."
"Jamaican","If you want to know who your friends are, lie by the roadside and pretend to be drunk."
"Jamaican","If you yearry debil a come, clear de way."
"Jamaican","If a flea had money, it would buy its own dog."
"Jamaican","Keep both eyes open before you are married and afterwards close only one."
"Jamaican","Make a friend when you don't need one."
"Jamaican","Keep your shop and your shop will keep you."
"Jamaican","Learn fe dance at home before you go abroad."
"Jamaican","Lickle bit a ram goat have beard an' big dull noh have nun."
"Jamaican","Lilly axe can cut down big tree."
"Jamaican","Lilly billy-goat hab beard by big bull hab none."
"Jamaican","Man dat carry straw no fe fool wid fire."
"Jamaican","Man no hab gourdy, him satisfy wid bottle."
"Jamaican","Ebery day debil help tief, one day god help watchman."
"Jamaican","A little pepper burns a big man's mouth."
"Jamaican","Man noh done cross riva, noh fi cuss alligator long mout long."
"Jamaican","Man noh dead, noh call 'im duppy."
"Jamaican","If yu de shit, an' si certain people/person a come; sidong inna it."
"Jamaican","Every dog got dem diay, Every puss dem 4 O' clock."
"Jamaican","Enough with the irrelevant details."
"Jamaican","Man hab cow him look fi milk."
"Jamaican","If ""How are you?"" cost a cent, few would hear it."
"Jamaican","Empty barrel mek de mos' noise."
"Jamaican","Empty pots will never boil over."
"Jamaican","Empty bag cyaa stan' up."
"Jamaican","Every dog knows his dinnertime."
"Jamaican","Every man honest till de day him ketch."
"Jamaican","Every man know whe' him own house de leak."
"Jamaican","Every mickle mek a mockle."
"Jamaican","Feel like Gumbeh drum widout a goat-skin."
"Jamaican","Fill your basket one item at a time."
"Jamaican","Finger stink you can't cut it trow it wey."
"Jamaican","Han'some face and good luck don' trabble de same pass."
"Jamaican","Hog say, di fus water im cetch, I'm walla."
"Jamaican","Every cave-hole have him own duppy."
"Jamaican","Fish-bone no lodge in a pickney troat alone."
"Jamaican","Hog say, di fus water 'im cetch 'im walla."
"Jamaican","Howdy an 'tenk yu, noh brok noh square."
"Jamaican","hog run fe him life, darg run fe him character."
"Jamaican","I cow dod did know how him troat hole ton him wouldn't chance pear seed."
"Jamaican","Godamighty mek man straight, a rum mek him can't 'tan' up."
"Jamaican","Frog never gargle him troat till him tas'e fresh water."
"Jamaican","Fry de bigh fish fust, te lilly one after."
"Jamaican","Haad iyaz pick'ni bu'n a sun hot."
"Jamaican","Going to bed without dinner is better than waking up in debt."
"Jamaican","Han' go, paki come."
"Jamaican","Sleep has no master."
"Jamaican","If you saw what the river carried, you would never drink the water."
"Jamaican","You shake man's hand, you no shake his heart."
"Jamaican","Words in mouth, no load upon head."
"Jamaican","Those who can't dance say the music is no good."
"Jamaican","Make a friend when you don't need one."
"Jamaican","Keep your secret in your own gourdy."
"Jamaican","Cows have no business in horseplay."
"Jamaican","No call alligator long mouth till you pass him."
"Jamaican","Keep your shop and your shop will keep you."
"Japanese","Fall seven times, stand up eight."
"Japanese","When the time comes, even a rat becomes a tiger."
"Japanese","It is a beggar's pride that he is not a thief."
"Japanese","First the man takes a drink, then the drink takes a drink, then the drink takes the man."
"Japanese","Vision without action is a daydream. Action with without vision is a nightmare."
"Japanese","Fast Ripe, Fast Rotten."
"Japanese","Never rely on the glory of the morning or the smiles of your mother-in-law."
"Japanese","Forgiving the unrepentant is like drawing pictures on water."
"Japanese","An excess of courtesy is a discourtesy."
"Japanese","The reverse side also has a reverse side."
"Japanese","When you are thirsty, it is too late to think about digging a well."
"Japanese","After victory, tighten your helmet chord."
"Japanese","Speak well of others."
"Japanese","Sparrows, though they live to be a hundred, do not forget their dance."
"Japanese","Sorrow is the seed of wealth."
"Japanese","Some people like to make of life a garden, and to walk only within its paths."
"Japanese","Some pray to the gods only when in trouble."
"Japanese","Sleeping people can't fall down."
"Japanese","Talk about things of tomorrow and the mice inside the ceiling laugh."
"Japanese","Snakes follow the way of serpents."
"Japanese","Small things are lovable."
"Japanese","Sometimes it takes only an hour to get a reputation that lasts for a thousand years."
"Japanese","Spend words as efficiently as money."
"Japanese","Spending it is like pouring water into sand."
"Japanese","Steal goods and you'll go to prison, steal lands and you are a king."
"Japanese","Suspicion bears dark devils."
"Japanese","Teaching is half learning."
"Japanese","Ten men, ten minds."
"Japanese","Ten men, ten tastes."
"Japanese","Rained on ground hardens."
"Japanese","The absent get further off every day."
"Japanese","The acolyte at the gate reads scriptures he has never learned."
"Japanese","The bandits in the mountain are easily subjected, but it is difficult to subject the bandits in my heart."
"Japanese","Stupidity begins with honesty."
"Japanese","Quiet worms will bore a hole in the wall."
"Japanese","Poetry moves heaven and earth."
"Japanese","Poets know all about famous places without having been there."
"Japanese","The unscrupulous succeed every time."
"Japanese","The base of a lighthouse is dark."
"Japanese","Poke a bush, a snake comes out."
"Japanese","Poor is the person who does not know when he has had enough. He who talks to a silent listener will soon stand naked."
"Japanese","Poor men sleep the best."
"Japanese","Poverty is no sin, but terribly inconvenient."
"Japanese","Proof rather than argument."
"Japanese","Pursue your duties and don't let them pursue you."
"Japanese","Repentance never comes first."
"Japanese","Put faith in your own abilities and not in the stars."
"Japanese","Sleep and wait for good luck."
"Japanese","Rather ten thousand lanterns from a wealthy man than one lantern from a poor man."
"Japanese","Respect old people, and be gentle with children."
"Japanese","Revere the Emperor and expel the barbarians."
"Japanese","Say what you have to say, tomorrow."
"Japanese","Seeing is poison for the eyes."
"Japanese","Serve your neighbors as you would be served yourself."
"Japanese","Sickness is a thing of the spirit."
"Japanese","Silence makes irritation grow."
"Japanese","Silence surpasses speech."
"Japanese","Silent worms dig holes in the walls."
"Japanese","Put faith in your own abilities and not in the stars."
"Japanese","There is no flower that remains red for ten days, and no power that lasts for ten years."
"Japanese","The very thing one likes, one does well."
"Japanese","The winds may fell the massive oak, but bamboo, bent even to the ground, will spring upright after the passage of the storm."
"Japanese","The world is the world for the world."
"Japanese","There are formalities between the closest of friends."
"Japanese","There are no national frontiers to learning."
"Japanese","There are old men of three years old and children of a hundred."
"Japanese","There as many ways of making a living as seeds of grass."
"Japanese","There can be no offense where none is taken."
"Japanese","There is no coincidence in getting married."
"Japanese","The tongue of woman is her sword, which never rusts."
"Japanese","There is no escape from the net of heaven."
"Japanese","The tongue is but three inches long, yet it can kill a man six feet high."
"Japanese","There is no medicine for a fool."
"Japanese","There is no such thing as bad food when you are really hungry."
"Japanese","There is no such thing as dirty clothes when it is cold."
"Japanese","There is nothing that cannot be achieved by firm imagination."
"Japanese","Thirty-six plans of how to win the battle are not so good as one plan to withdraw from the fight."
"Japanese","Though the blind man cannot see it, light remains light."
"Japanese","Though the wind blows, the mountain does not move."
"Japanese","Tigers die and leave their skins; people die and leave their names."
"Japanese","Plan your life at New Year's eve, your day at dawn."
"Japanese","Never admit that there is a tomorrow."
"Japanese","There is no escape from heaven's web."
"Japanese","The crow that mimics a cormorant gets drowned."
"Japanese","The beginning of sin is sweet; its end is bitter."
"Japanese","The boaster and the proud person are fools."
"Japanese","The caged bird dreams of clouds."
"Japanese","The cat is a saint when there are no mice about."
"Japanese","The character of a man lies not in his body but in his soul."
"Japanese","The cherry blossom among flowers, the warrior among men."
"Japanese","The child who died too soon was always beautiful and intelligent."
"Japanese","The clog and amida are both from the same piece of wood."
"Japanese","The consequence is the reward of the cause."
"Japanese","The country is in ruins, and there are still mountains and rivers."
"Japanese","The turtle underestimates the value of fast feet."
"Japanese","The criticism of a blind man."
"Japanese","The tongue is more to be feared than the sword."
"Japanese","The day you decide to do it is your lucky day."
"Japanese","The devil was good looking at eighteen, and course tea makes a bitter first cup."
"Japanese","The dog called ""Sorrow,"" without eating, will be fat in every house."
"Japanese","The dog that wags its tail won't be beaten."
"Japanese","The extreme form of passionate love is secret love."
"Japanese","The eye that is still says more than a chattering mouth."
"Japanese","The eyes are the mirror of the soul."
"Japanese","The eyes speak as much as the mouth."
"Japanese","The taste of cold water after drinking, is a pleasure that the teetotaler will never know."
"Japanese","The bean paste that smells like bean paste is not the best quality."
"Japanese","The cow drinks water and it turns to milk; the snake drinks water and it turns to poison."
"Japanese","Money matters make strangers."
"Japanese","Luck is like having a rice dumpling fly into your mouth."
"Japanese","Making money is like digging with a needle."
"Japanese","Man and wife are one flesh."
"Japanese","Man is the instrument of illness."
"Japanese","Man longs to see that which he is afraid to see."
"Japanese","Many flowers, few fruits."
"Japanese","May you live up to one hundred years and i up to ninety-nine."
"Japanese","Men and women are never placed too far apart to be near."
"Japanese","Money grows on the tree of persistence."
"Japanese","Never watch a bonfire wearing a straw coat."
"Japanese","Money has no smell."
"Japanese","Love and a cough cannot be hidden."
"Japanese","Moonlight and boiled rice."
"Japanese","More festive than the feast itself is the day before."
"Japanese","Mountains are not esteemed because they are high, but because they have trees."
"Japanese","My skirt with tears is always wet: I have forgotten to forget."
"Japanese","My son is my son till he gets him a wife, but my daughter's my daughter all the days of her life."
"Japanese","We've arrived, and to prove it we're here."
"Japanese","Never judge things of which you only know the shadow."
"Japanese","Time flies like an arrow."
"Japanese","Never trust a woman, even if she has borne you seven children."
"Japanese","Never rely on the glory of the morning nor the smiles of your mother-in-law."
"Japanese","Money has no ears but it hears; no legs but it walks."
"Japanese","Life is for one generation; a good name is forever."
"Japanese","Kindness will never be wasted in any way."
"Japanese","Knowledge without wisdom is a load of books on the back of an ass."
"Japanese","Kyoto people ruin themselves for clothing. osaka people for food."
"Japanese","Large trees are envied by the wind."
"Japanese","Laughter cannot bring back what anger has driven away."
"Japanese","Laughter is the hiccup of a fool."
"Japanese","Lazy people have no spare time."
"Japanese","Let the past drift away with the water."
"Japanese","Let what is past flow away downstream."
"Japanese","Let's live helping each other in this world."
"Japanese","Love without friendship is like a shadow without the sun."
"Japanese","Life is a long journey with a heavy bag on its back."
"Japanese","Love lives in palaces as well as in thatched cottages."
"Japanese","Life is the source of all things."
"Japanese","Life without endeavor is like entering a jewel-mine and coming out with empty hands."
"Japanese","Life's not all beer and skittles."
"Japanese","Life? That is a candle in the wind; frost upon a roof; the twitching of the fish in a pan."
"Japanese","Like a buddha met with in hell."
"Japanese","Like a millstone dressed in a kimono."
"Japanese","Like trying to put a comb upon the nun's head."
"Japanese","Look for a thrifty woman -- even though it may cost you a pair of shoes."
"Japanese","Looking up we are not ashamed in the presence of heaven, nor bowing down are we ashamed in the presence of earth."
"Japanese","No branch is better than its trunk."
"Japanese","Life is a candle before the wind."
"Japanese","Only lawyers and painters can turn white to black."
"Japanese","One may study calligraphy at eighty."
"Japanese","One moment of intense happiness prolongs life by a thousand years."
"Japanese","One sees the sky through a hollow reed."
"Japanese","One who eats plain food is healthy."
"Japanese","One who smiles rather than rages is always the stronger."
"Japanese","One who waits patiently will catch a big fish."
"Japanese","One word let slip and four horses would fail to catch it."
"Japanese","One written word is worth a thousand pieces of gold."
"Japanese","One's village is revealed."
"Japanese","Never trust the advice of a man in difficulty."
"Japanese","Only he who knows his own weaknesses can endure those of others."
"Japanese","One kind word can warm 3 winter months."
"Japanese","Only through suffering and sorrow do we acquire the wisdom not found in books."
"Japanese","Only when the coffin is closed will we see how long lasting is the name."
"Japanese","Our fates are as registered by heaven."
"Japanese","Over-intelligent people can't find friends."
"Japanese","Overturned water doesn't return to the tray."
"Japanese","Parents and children teach one another."
"Japanese","Pears and women are the sweetest in the parts that are heaviest."
"Japanese","People want to avoid the dew before they become wet."
"Japanese","People who are asleep can't fall down."
"Japanese","People with the same disease share sympathy."
"Japanese","Only God knows one's term of life."
"Japanese","Once we meet and talk, we are brothers and sisters."
"Japanese","No one buys what he recommends himself."
"Japanese","No one was ever hurt by laughter."
"Japanese","No road is too long in the company of a friend."
"Japanese","Not to know is to be a Buddha."
"Japanese","Not-speaking is the flower."
"Japanese","Nothing so visible than what you want to hide."
"Japanese","Obey the customs of the village you enter."
"Japanese","Old age cures us of our youth."
"Japanese","Old horses don't forget the way."
"Japanese","Old people are everyone's treasures."
"Japanese","One kindness is the price of another."
"Japanese","Once dead the good and the bad are covered by the same moss."
"Japanese","One kind word can warm three winter months."
"Japanese","Once you have made a fortune, know how to spend it."
"Japanese","One can stand still in a flowing stream, but not in a world of men."
"Japanese","One cannot always find a fish under a willow."
"Japanese","One cannot become a priest just by having a rosary."
"Japanese","One cannot quarrel without an opponent."
"Japanese","One cannot scoop up the ocean with a sea shell."
"Japanese","One coin saved, a hundred losses."
"Japanese","One dog yelping at nothing will set ten thousand straining at their collars."
"Japanese","One joy can drive away a hundred sorrows."
"Japanese","Pick your wife in the kitchen."
"Japanese","Once conquered -- always a traitor."
"Japanese","The skill of using a mortar and pestle never leaves one."
"Japanese","With the first glass a man drinks wine, with the second glass the wine drinks the wine, with the third glass the wine drinks the man."
"Japanese","The spot that makes the warrior benkei cry."
"Japanese","The splendor of the rose of sharon is but a day."
"Japanese","The spit aimed at the sky comes back to one."
"Japanese","The spirit of a three-year-old lasts a hundred years."
"Japanese","The spendthrift beats his money as if it were a carpet."
"Japanese","The speaker may well be a fool but the listener is wise."
"Japanese","The sparrow flying behind the hawk thinks the hawk is fleeing."
"Japanese","The soul of a three year old until a hundred."
"Japanese","The stumbling of a fabulous horse."
"Japanese","The smaller the margin, the greater the turnover."
"Japanese","Your years will still remain the same whether you laugh or cry."
"Japanese","The shade of the same tree, the flowing of the same stream."
"Japanese","The second word makes the fray."
"Japanese","The sack of longing has no bottom."
"Japanese","The reverse side also has a reverse side."
"Japanese","The reputation of a thousand years may be determined by the conduct of one hour."
"Japanese","The prettiest of shoes makes a sorry hat."
"Japanese","The poor sleep soundly."
"Japanese","The poor have no time to spare."
"Japanese","The plagiarist turns the body inside-out and changes the bones."
"Japanese","The person who admits ignorance shows it once; the one who tries to hide it shows it often."
"Japanese","The smallest good deed is better than the grandest good intention."
"Japanese","You can't see the whole sky through a bamboo pole."
"Japanese","We learn little from victory, but a great deal from defeat."
"Japanese","Without wine, even beautiful cherry blossoms have small attraction."
"Japanese","Without women there is no day and no night."
"Japanese","Women's quarrels cause the men's wars."
"Japanese","Work the fields on a fine day, study on a rainy day."
"Japanese","Yesterday's flowers are today's dreams."
"Japanese","You are wise to climb Mt. Fuji, but a fool to do it twice."
"Japanese","You can only endure the weaknesses of others by knowing your own. Flattery is the best persuader."
"Japanese","You can see heaven through the eye of the needle."
"Japanese","The strong will protect the weak and, in return, the weak will serve the strong."
"Japanese","You can't eat the rice cake in the picture."
"Japanese","The path of duty lies in what is near at hand, but men seek for it in what is remote."
"Japanese","You can't straighten a snake by putting it in a bamboo cane."
"Japanese","You cannot catch a tiger cub unless you enter the tiger's den."
"Japanese","You don't have to die: heaven and hell are in this world too."
"Japanese","You have to bow a few times before you can stand upright."
"Japanese","You know your body best."
"Japanese","You should climb Mount Fujiyama once in your life. Climb it twice and you're a fool."
"Japanese","You warm up something for ten days and it goes cold in one."
"Japanese","You will lack nothing if you think privation is always with you."
"Japanese","You will never learn enough looking for only the good things in life; you will always be a pupil."
"Japanese","You won't get sick if you have plenty of work."
"Japanese","You can worship a sardine's head if you believe in it."
"Japanese","The guest who seeks special attention muddies the host's tea."
"Japanese","The intimacy of water and fish."
"Japanese","The inarticulate speak longest."
"Japanese","The human heart is neither of stone nor wood."
"Japanese","The hole the crab digs takes on the shape of its shell."
"Japanese","The hen tells the cock to crow."
"Japanese","The heaviest rains fall on the house that leaks most."
"Japanese","The heart is the most essential human quality."
"Japanese","The head of a monkey, the headdress of a prince."
"Japanese","The head of a dragon, the tail of a snake."
"Japanese","The pensioner gets the wages of the death."
"Japanese","The hard road turns the traveller into the same dust that he has to swallow."
"Japanese","The lazy one stands up between one armchair and another."
"Japanese","The goodness of the father reaches higher than a mountain; that of the mother goes deeper than the ocean."
"Japanese","The gods just laugh when men pray to them for wealth."
"Japanese","The go-between wears out a thousand sandals."
"Japanese","The frog in his pond sneers at the ocean."
"Japanese","The friendship of water and fish."
"Japanese","The fortune-teller never knows his own."
"Japanese","The flowers of others are red."
"Japanese","The flow of water and the future of human beings are uncertain."
"Japanese","The fast talker makes mistakes."
"Japanese","Kind hearts are better than fair faces."
"Japanese","The hawk with talent hides its talons."
"Japanese","The mouth is the cause of calamity."
"Japanese","Wisdom is lost in a fat man's body."
"Japanese","The past is the future of the present."
"Japanese","The other side also has another side."
"Japanese","The old should be treated with due respect. Children should be treated with gentleness."
"Japanese","The old people are treasures to us."
"Japanese","The neighbour's lawn is green."
"Japanese","The nail that sticks up will be hammered down."
"Japanese","The nail that sticks up gets hammered down."
"Japanese","The nail that sticks out is hammered down."
"Japanese","The nail that sticks its head up is the one that gets hit."
"Japanese","The jellyfish never dances with the shrimp."
"Japanese","The mouth is the door of evil."
"Japanese","The lawyer will extend the frontiers of a fight."
"Japanese","The most beautiful flowers flourish in the shade."
"Japanese","The more you eat, the more you gain."
"Japanese","The more the merrier."
"Japanese","The more stupid the child the dearer it is."
"Japanese","The matchmaker always asks for too much money for his eight hundred lies."
"Japanese","The marten is proud where there is no weasel."
"Japanese","The man who makes the first bad move always loses the game."
"Japanese","The lotus flower blooms in the mud."
"Japanese","A fish gets bigger when it gets away."
"Japanese","The pebble in the brook secretly thinks itself a precious stone."
"Japanese","The mouth of a man is a terrible opening."
"Japanese","Two lovers in the rain have no need of an umbrella."
"Japanese","Without oars, you cannot cross in a boat."
"Japanese","Too many accomplishments makes no accomplishments."
"Japanese","Too many boatmen will run the boat up to the top of the mountains."
"Japanese","Too many hands will row the boat up a mountain."
"Japanese","Too much is worse than too little."
"Japanese","Too much politeness is impertinent."
"Japanese","Transactions in Hell also depend upon money."
"Japanese","Trash accumulates in stagnant water."
"Japanese","True patience consists in bearing what is unbearable."
"Japanese","Tomorrow is a new day."
"Japanese","Truthful words are seldom pleasant."
"Japanese","To wear two pairs of straw sandals at once."
"Japanese","Under a powerful general there are no feeble soldiers."
"Japanese","Unhappiness can be a bridge to happiness."
"Japanese","Unless you enter the tiger's den you cannot take the cubs."
"Japanese","Unspoken words are the flowers of silence."
"Japanese","Victims of the same disease have a lot to talk about."
"Japanese","Virtue carries an empty purse."
"Japanese","Virtue is not knowing but doing."
"Japanese","Vision with action is a daydream; action without vision is a nightmare."
"Japanese","Vision without action is a daydream. Action with without vision is a nightmare."
"Japanese","Walls have ears, bottles have mouths."
"Japanese","Truth often comes out of a joke."
"Japanese","To leap into a pool embracing a stone."
"Japanese","Time tries a'."
"Japanese","Time waits for no one."
"Japanese","To ask is a temporary shame; not to ask, an eternal one."
"Japanese","To change like the eyes of a cat."
"Japanese","To commit harakiri with a pestle."
"Japanese","To draw water into one's own rice field."
"Japanese","To endure what is unendurable is true endurance."
"Japanese","To gamble as the dice fall."
"Japanese","To go in the right ear and out the left."
"Japanese","Tomorrow's battle is won during today's practice."
"Japanese","To know and to act are one and the same."
"Japanese","We are no more than candles burning in the wind."
"Japanese","To lend your hatchet and get your forest cut down."
"Japanese","To make the tea cloudy."
"Japanese","To one who does not wander there is not enlightenment."
"Japanese","To receive a favor is to sell one's liberty."
"Japanese","To teach is also to learn."
"Japanese","To teach is to learn."
"Japanese","To tell tales out of school."
"Japanese","To the partial eyes of a lover, pockmarks seem like dimples."
"Japanese","To the starving man the beauty of Fujiyama has no meaning."
"Japanese","To wait for luck is the same as waiting for death."
"Japanese","To kick with sore toe only hurts foot."
"Japanese","Where there is fish, there is water."
"Japanese","When you are thirsty, it's too late to think of digging the well."
"Japanese","When you do something wholeheartedly, you are not in need of helpers."
"Japanese","When you have a good government the grass will grow over your troubles."
"Japanese","When you have children yourself, you begin to understand what you owe your parents."
"Japanese","When you have completed 95% of your journey you are halfway there."
"Japanese","When you reject gifts from heaven you will be rewarded in hell."
"Japanese","When you talk about future happenings the devil starts to laugh."
"Japanese","When you're dying of thirst it's too late to think about digging a well."
"Japanese","When you're thirsty it's too late to think about digging a well."
"Japanese","Walls have ears, paper sliding doors have eyes."
"Japanese","Where profit is, loss is hiding nearby."
"Japanese","When you are looking upwards you see no frontiers."
"Japanese","Where there is laughter happiness likes to be."
"Japanese","Where there is no antagonist, you cannot quarrel."
"Japanese","Whether to go east or west depends on one's mind or feet."
"Japanese","While we consider when to begin, it becomes too late."
"Japanese","While young, the tree can be easily bent."
"Japanese","Who cares if a crow is male or female?"
"Japanese","Who travels for love finds a thousand miles not longer than one."
"Japanese","Wine is the best broom for troubles."
"Japanese","Wine is water adulterated by foolish talk."
"Japanese","Wisdom and virtue are like the two wheels of a cart."
"Japanese","When your companions get drunk and fight, Take up your hat, and wish them good night."
"Japanese","When someone offends you, you haven't given him enough love."
"Japanese","Time spent laughing is time spent with the gods."
"Japanese","We can laugh happily with our children, but not with money."
"Japanese","We get along well with those we can get along with well."
"Japanese","We learn by watching and listening."
"Japanese","We're fools whether we dance or not, so we might as well dance."
"Japanese","Wealth gets in the way of wisdom."
"Japanese","What is good is not necessarily beautiful."
"Japanese","When a bonsai stops growing, you know it's dead."
"Japanese","When a girl in the teahouse smiles at you, look the other way."
"Japanese","When folly passes by, reason draws back."
"Japanese","When you are thirsty, it is too late to think about digging a well."
"Japanese","When someone is really hungry, then there is no such thing as ""bad food."""
"Japanese","When you are polite, the others think they are wearing flowers."
"Japanese","When ten thousand soldiers lie rotting, the general's reputation is enhanced."
"Japanese","When the cat mourns for the mouse do not take her seriously."
"Japanese","When the character of a man is not clear to you, look at his friends."
"Japanese","When the hand is put in, the foot follows."
"Japanese","When the heat has passed, you forget about the shade of trees."
"Japanese","When the heat has past, you forget about the shade tree."
"Japanese","When the moon is full, it begins to wane."
"Japanese","When the time comes, even a rat becomes a tiger."
"Japanese","When there are two fires in one room, only one will smoke."
"Japanese","Water will always take the form of the vase it fills."
"Japanese","When one dog barks for nothing, all other dogs bark in earnest."
"Japanese","Borrowed garments do not fit well."
"Japanese","An ant's nest could bring down a hill."
"Japanese","Better than a banquet somewhere else is a good cup of tea and a bowl of rice at home."
"Japanese","Better than a thousand days of diligent study is one day with a great teacher."
"Japanese","Better to be a crystal and to be broken, than to be a tile upon the housetop."
"Japanese","Better to die than to live in shame."
"Japanese","Better to wash an old kimono than borrow a new one."
"Japanese","Better to write down something one time than to read something ten times."
"Japanese","Big fish do not live in small ponds."
"Japanese","Boasting begins where wisdom stops."
"Japanese","Better be proficient in one art than a smatterer in a thousand."
"Japanese","Books are preserved parts of minds."
"Japanese","Beginning is easy -- to keep going is hard."
"Japanese","Both quarrellers are to be punished."
"Japanese","Breeding rather than birth."
"Japanese","Brides and mothers-in-law are like dogs and monkeys."
"Japanese","Business and folding screens must be crooked to stand."
"Japanese","Business is a two-way street."
"Japanese","By poking at a bamboo thicket, one drives out a snake."
"Japanese","By seeing one spot you know the entire leopard."
"Japanese","Character can be built on daily routine."
"Japanese","Cheerfulness is the very flower of health."
"Japanese","Cherry blossoms in the recesses of a mountain."
"Japanese","Boat-swalling fish do not live in brooks."
"Japanese","As though a bird had flown up from under your feet."
"Japanese","Entering the village, obey the village."
"Japanese","An evil act runs a thousand miles."
"Japanese","An excess of courtesy is a discourtesy."
"Japanese","An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth."
"Japanese","An idiot is eloquent when he stays silent."
"Japanese","Any ground is good enough to be buried in."
"Japanese","Apple blossoms are beautiful, but rice dumplings are better."
"Japanese","Apply fitting ability in the fitting place."
"Japanese","Art is the illusion of spontaneity."
"Japanese","Better go without medicine than call in an unskilled physician."
"Japanese","As soon as stones can swim, leaves will sink."
"Japanese","Clouds over the moon, a storm over blossoms."
"Japanese","As to flowers, when half open; as to sake, when a person is half tipsy."
"Japanese","At a distance enjoy the fragrance of flowers."
"Japanese","At the bottom of the lighthouse it is dark."
"Japanese","At the first cup man drinks wine, at the second wine drinks wine, at the third wine drinks man."
"Japanese","Bad and good are intertwined like rope."
"Japanese","Beat your wife on the wedding day, and your married life will be happy."
"Japanese","Beaten with his own rod."
"Japanese","Beauty is skin deep."
"Japanese","Because of their figure, vain women stay cold."
"Japanese","Beginning is easy - Continuing is hard."
"Japanese","As soon as a man leaves his house he has seven enemies."
"Japanese","Due to the presence of fools wise people stand out."
"Japanese","Do not prophesy to the man who can see further than you can."
"Japanese","Do not stay too long when the husband is not home."
"Japanese","Don't call in the doctor after the funeral."
"Japanese","Don't estimate the value of a badger skin before catching the badger."
"Japanese","Don't give your son's wife fall-harvest eggplant to eat."
"Japanese","Don't rejoice over him that goes, before you see him that comes."
"Japanese","Don't scratch your shoe when it's your foot that itches."
"Japanese","Don't stay long when the husband is not at home."
"Japanese","Don't take a golden sword to cut a radish."
"Japanese","Children grow up, with or without parents."
"Japanese","Don't try to cover the stone with a quilt."
"Japanese","Difficulties make you a jewel."
"Japanese","Dumplings are better than flowers."
"Japanese","Duty is heavy as a mountain but Death is lighter than a feather."
"Japanese","Duty knows no family."
"Japanese","Each day you can admire the moon, the snow and the flowers."
"Japanese","Each has his yang chi."
"Japanese","Earthquakes, thunderbolts, fires, fathers."
"Japanese","Eat before falling in love."
"Japanese","Eggplants do not grow on melon vines."
"Japanese","Eggs and promises are easily broken."
"Japanese","Eggs and vows are easily broken."
"Japanese","Don't take seriously the cat who mourns for a mouse."
"Japanese","Cover your head, and not cover your bottom."
"Japanese","An ant hole may collapse an embankment."
"Japanese","Cold tea and cold rice are bearable, but cold looks and cold words are not."
"Japanese","Cold tea and cold rice are tolerable; cold looks and cold words aren't."
"Japanese","Common sense is essential."
"Japanese","Conqueror the self and you will conquer the opponent."
"Japanese","Consider the facts seven times before you suspect someone."
"Japanese","Consult anyone, even your knees."
"Japanese","Control of mental conduct, not skill, is the sign of a matured samurai."
"Japanese","Control your emotion or it will control you."
"Japanese","Cooked rice grains sticking to the soles of the feet."
"Japanese","Do good things quickly."
"Japanese","Cover the ears and steal the bell."
"Japanese","Disgrace is like the grain of a tree trunk -- time makes it bigger instead of erasing it."
"Japanese","Crabs dig holes according to the size of their shells."
"Japanese","Cupidity has no peak."
"Japanese","Darkness lies one inch ahead."
"Japanese","Darkness reigns at the foot of the lighthouse."
"Japanese","Day has its eyes, night has its ears."
"Japanese","Deceive the rich and powerful if you will, but don't insult them."
"Japanese","Deceiving a deceiver is no knavery."
"Japanese","Depend on your walking stick, not on other people."
"Japanese","Destroy a country, but its mountains and rivers remain."
"Japanese","Children yoke parents to the past, present and future."
"Japanese","Count the skins of badgers which haven't been caught."
"Japanese","A journey of a thousand miles starts with one step."
"Japanese","An eight-sided beauty is coldhearted."
"Japanese","A man's heart changes as often as does the autumn sky."
"Japanese","A man's heart and the autumnal sky."
"Japanese","A man's good name is as precious to him as its skin is to a tiger."
"Japanese","A man with a sour face should not open a shop."
"Japanese","A man who always wears his best kimono has no Sunday clothes."
"Japanese","A man of straw is still a man."
"Japanese","A man in love mistakes a pimple for a dimple."
"Japanese","A man in love mistakes a harelip for a dimple."
"Japanese","A mended lid to a cracked pan."
"Japanese","A lie has no legs, but scandalous wings."
"Japanese","A merchants happiness hangs upon chance, winds, and waves."
"Japanese","A joke is often the hole through which truth whistles."
"Japanese","A good sword is the one left in its scabbard."
"Japanese","A good religion does not need miracles."
"Japanese","A good Jack makes a good Jill."
"Japanese","A good husband is healthy and absent."
"Japanese","A good cat does not need a collar of gold."
"Japanese","A gilt-edged visiting card often hides an ugly face."
"Japanese","A full belly is not the stomach of a scholar."
"Japanese","A fruit-bearing tree is known by its flowers."
"Japanese","A frog in the well knows not the ocean."
"Japanese","A man can endure the worst pain -- of others."
"Japanese","A rosy face in the morning, white bones in the evening."
"Japanese","A thousand li journey begins with a single step."
"Japanese","A tea cup on the edge of a well."
"Japanese","A sutra."
"Japanese","A sutra in a horse's ear."
"Japanese","A statement once let loose cannot be caught by four horses."
"Japanese","A smooth talker is a good-for-nothing person."
"Japanese","A single prayer moves heaven."
"Japanese","A single arrow is easily broken, but not ten in a bundle."
"Japanese","A silent man is the best one to listen to."
"Japanese","A man's word is his honor."
"Japanese","A round egg can be made square according to how you cut it; words would be harsh according to how you speak them."
"Japanese","A fallen blossom never returns to the branch."
"Japanese","A red lacquer dish needs no decoration."
"Japanese","A protruding post is hammered down."
"Japanese","A proposal without patience breaks its own heart."
"Japanese","A powerful man has big ears."
"Japanese","A pig used to dirt turns up his nose at rice."
"Japanese","A pig used to dirt turns its nose up at rice."
"Japanese","A padded jacket is an acceptable gift even in summer."
"Japanese","A monkey makes fun of the red behinds of his fellow monkeys."
"Japanese","A miser and his persimmon seeds."
"Japanese","A merry companion on the road is as good as a nag."
"Japanese","A short temper is a disadvantage."
"Japanese","Adversity is the foundation of virtue."
"Japanese","A tiger dies and leaves his skin; a man dies and leaves his name."
"Japanese","A whip even to a galloping horse."
"Japanese","A wild goose may be worth a hundred pieces of gold, but you first have to spend three pieces of gold to buy an arrow."
"Japanese","A willow before the wind."
"Japanese","A wise man does not lose his way, a brave man does not fear."
"Japanese","A woman has many mouths."
"Japanese","A woman's heart and spring weather."
"Japanese","A word can't be recalled once spoken."
"Japanese","Absent friends get further away every day."
"Japanese","A fog cannot be dispelled by a fan."
"Japanese","Acorns compare their height with each other."
"Japanese","A bad wife is a poor harvest for sixty years."
"Japanese","Advertising is the mother of trade."
"Japanese","Affinity is a mysterious thing, but it is spicy."
"Japanese","Afraid of his own shadow."
"Japanese","After the fight both parties give each other a good smack."
"Japanese","After three years even a disaster can be good for something."
"Japanese","After three years useless things are useful too."
"Japanese","After victory, tighten your helmet chord."
"Japanese","All married women are not wives."
"Japanese","Although dying of thirst, i drink not the water of a stolen fountain."
"Japanese","An accomplishment sticks to a person."
"Japanese","Abuse often starts with praise."
"Japanese","A centipede, though dead, will not fall."
"Japanese","Drink and sing: the dark night is ahead of us."
"Japanese","A fool is only cured by dying."
"Japanese","A faithful wife does not marry again."
"Japanese","Karma and shadows follow one everywhere."
"Japanese","A dying man discovers the honesty with which he was born."
"Japanese","A dog that walks around will find a stick."
"Japanese","A dead cherry tree will not blossom."
"Japanese","A crying child thrives."
"Japanese","A crooked top on a crooked kettle."
"Japanese","A country can be conquered from the back of a horse but may not be ruled in the same manner."
"Japanese","A three inch tongue -- the iron bulwark of politics."
"Japanese","A clever hawk hides its talons."
"Japanese","The taller the bamboo grows, the lower it bends."
"Japanese","A buddha's face when asked three times."
"Japanese","A boy living near a buddhist temple can learn an untaught sutra by heart."
"Japanese","A borrowed cat catches no mice."
"Japanese","A boat that is not tied up will drift along with the stream."
"Japanese","A bee stinging a crying face."
"Japanese","A beautiful woman is like an axe in one's life."
"Japanese","A bean-jam rice cake into the open mouth."
"Japanese","A bath refreshes the body, tea refreshes the mind."
"Japanese","A bad wife is one hundred years of bad harvest."
"Japanese","A faultless person has seven faults, a faulty person forty-eight faults."
"Japanese","A coin to a cat."
"Japanese","If you are in a boat you are more afraid of fire than you are of water."
"Japanese","If one man praises you, a thousand will repeat the praise."
"Japanese","If the bird hadn't sung, it wouldn't have been shot."
"Japanese","If the father is a frog, the son will be a frog."
"Japanese","If the fountainhead is clear, the stream will be clear."
"Japanese","If the skin of your belly is tight, the skin of your eyelids can sleep."
"Japanese","If there is a lid that doesn't fit, then there is a lid that does. To a person that does not wander, there is not enlightenment. Fall seven times, stand up eight."
"Japanese","If unreason comes, reason goes."
"Japanese","If you are eager to be in the shadow, leave your axe at home."
"Japanese","If you are going out for a fight leave your best hat at home."
"Japanese","If you love your son, let him travel."
"Japanese","If you are going to sit on it for three years, the seat will certainly get warm."
"Japanese","If money be not thy servant, it will be thy master."
"Japanese","If you are looking for bad luck, you will soon find it."
"Japanese","If you are travelling towards the East, you will inevitably move away from the West."
"Japanese","If you beat even new floor mats, dirt will come out."
"Japanese","If you become a dog, turn into the dog of a wealthy family."
"Japanese","If you believe everything you read, you had better not read."
"Japanese","If you carry treasure, don't travel at night."
"Japanese","If you hate a man, let him live."
"Japanese","If you have no one else, then confer with your knee."
"Japanese","If you have only two pennies left in the world, with the first penny, you should buy rice to feed your family. With the second penny, say the wise Japanese, you should buy a lily. The Japanese understand the importance of dreaming..."
"Japanese","He who talks to a silent listener will soon stand naked."
"Japanese","If you are going to fall it's muddy everywhere."
"Japanese","Don't tell others to do what you cannot do."
"Japanese","He who treads the path of love walks a thousand meters as if it were only one."
"Japanese","He who wants what God wants of him will lead a free and happy life."
"Japanese","He who wears a smile instead of worrying is always the strongest."
"Japanese","He who would go a hundred miles should consider ninety-nine as halfway."
"Japanese","Heart rather than appearance."
"Japanese","Hidden virtues ring like a soft bell."
"Japanese","How can swallows and sparrows know the thoughts of a great swan?"
"Japanese","How good at combing is the bald priest."
"Japanese","I have no friends; I make my mind my friend."
"Japanese","I have no set principles; I make adaptability to all circumstances my principle."
"Japanese","If neither animal nor vegetable you be, then mineral you are."
"Japanese","I would like to break off the flower, but the branch is too high."
"Japanese","If my shirt knew my design, I'd burn it."
"Japanese","If a man be great, even his dog will wear a proud look."
"Japanese","If a man deceive me once, shame on him; if he deceive me twice, shame on me."
"Japanese","If a waterwheel exerts itself, it has no time to get frozen."
"Japanese","If eating poison finish up the plate."
"Japanese","If every day was a sunny day, who would not wish for rain?"
"Japanese","If he works for you, you work for him."
"Japanese","If her works for you, you work for him."
"Japanese","If I peddle salt, it rains; if I peddle flour, the wind blows."
"Japanese","If man has no tea in him, he is incapable of understanding truth and beauty."
"Japanese","If you love your son, make him leave home."
"Japanese","Even a fool has one talent."
"Japanese","It is one life, whether we spend it in laughing or in weeping."
"Japanese","Invalids live the longest."
"Japanese","It belongs neither to the sea nor to the mountain."
"Japanese","It is a beggar's pride that he is not a thief."
"Japanese","It is a blessing in disguise."
"Japanese","It is better to be ignorant than mistaken."
"Japanese","It is better to be the head of a chicken than the rear of an ox."
"Japanese","It is better to go home and make your net than to gaze longingly at the fish in the deep pool."
"Japanese","It is better to write down something once than read it ten times."
"Japanese","It is easy to die -- the difficulty lies in living."
"Japanese","If you look up, there are no limits."
"Japanese","It is no use cutting a stick when the fight is over."
"Japanese","Inquire seven times then doubt a person."
"Japanese","It is precisely the uncertainty of this world that makes life worth living."
"Japanese","It is the same life whether we spend it crying or laughing."
"Japanese","It is useful to first see the spark before the fire."
"Japanese","It's awful, I hate it"" is hardly the other side of ""That is beautiful and I loved it."""
"Japanese","It's better to lie a little than to be unhappy."
"Japanese","It's better to not read at all than to believe everything you read. The day you decide to do it is your lucky day."
"Japanese","It's easier to make it than to think about it."
"Japanese","It's hard to know the quality of a person, or a watermelon."
"Japanese","It's no good trying to bite your navel."
"Japanese","Jizo's face when borrowing; emma's face when repaying."
"Japanese","It is foolish to deal with a fool."
"Japanese","If you wait, there will come nectar - like fair weather."
"Japanese","If you make a mistake, don't hesitate to correct it."
"Japanese","If you make love in the shade you get cold."
"Japanese","If you never climb Mt. Fuji, you're a fool, and if you climb it more than once, you're a crazy fool."
"Japanese","If you respect others, others will respect you."
"Japanese","If you respect others, they will respect you."
"Japanese","If you run after two hares, you will catch neither."
"Japanese","If you see Mt. Fuji, a hawk, and an eggplant on New Year's Day, you will be forever blessed."
"Japanese","If you sit by the river long enough, you will see the body of your enemy float by."
"Japanese","If you think about things too long, good thoughts will disappear."
"Japanese","If you turn into a dog, be sure to choose a rich family."
"Japanese","Into the house where joy lives, happiness will gladly come."
"Japanese","If you wait long enough, it will be good weather."
"Japanese","Instead of worrying, a strong man wears a smile."
"Japanese","If you want a thing done well, do it yourself."
"Japanese","If you wish to learn the highest truths, begin with the alphabet."
"Japanese","If you would shoot a general, shoot his horse first."
"Japanese","In a quarrel, the higher voiced person will win."
"Japanese","In a wealthy man's house there is no lean dog."
"Japanese","In strategy, secrecy is highly regarded."
"Japanese","In the eyes of a lover a pock-marked face is one with pretty dimples."
"Japanese","In trying to straighten the horns you kill the ox."
"Japanese","Indifference is a generous kind of intolerance."
"Japanese","I have no sword; I make no mind my sword."
"Japanese","If you understand everything, you must be misinformed."
"Japanese","Feed a dog for three days and it is gratefull for three years. Feed a cat for three years and it forgets after three days."
"Japanese","Forgetting your native tongue means forgetting your native country."
"Japanese","Fall seven times and stand up eight."
"Japanese","Fall seven times, rise eight."
"Japanese","Fall seven times, stand up the eighth."
"Japanese","Fall six times, rise seven"
"Japanese","Fall six times, stand up seven."
"Japanese","Fallen blossom doesn't return to the branch."
"Japanese","Fallen blossoms do not return to branches; a broken mirror does not again reflect."
"Japanese","I'll give away rice fields and footpaths."
"Japanese","Every worm to his taste."
"Japanese","He who steals incense smells of it."
"Japanese","Every meeting is the beginning of a good-bye."
"Japanese","Fire does not burn in a jar."
"Japanese","First the man takes a drink of liquor, then the drink takes a drink, and then the drink takes the man."
"Japanese","First the man takes a drink, then the drink takes a drink, then the drink takes the man."
"Japanese","First things first."
"Japanese","Flattery is the best persuader of people."
"Japanese","Follow the villagers when you are in the new village."
"Japanese","Food is delicious when one is hungry."
"Japanese","Fools and knives require good handling."
"Japanese","Fools and scissors require good handling."
"Japanese","For rice cakes, go to the rice-cake maker."
"Japanese","Fate aids the courageous."
"Japanese","Even monkeys fall from trees."
"Japanese","Even a fool knows the glow of gold."
"Japanese","Even a one-inch insect has a half-inch soul."
"Japanese","Even a sheet of paper has two sides."
"Japanese","Even a superb hawk will not catch game unless it is loosed."
"Japanese","Even a thief takes ten years to learn his trade."
"Japanese","Even a thousand-mile journey begins with the first step."
"Japanese","Even confucius had his misfortunes."
"Japanese","Even dust amassed will grow into a mountain."
"Japanese","Even if you hide yourself from the world, don't lose sight of your real nature."
"Japanese","Fall down seven times, get up eight."
"Japanese","Even monkees fall from trees."
"Japanese","Fear blows wind into your sails."
"Japanese","Even the Buddha's face, only until the third."
"Japanese","Even the stone you trip on is part of your destiny."
"Japanese","Even thinking about sexual pleasure has its roots in greed."
"Japanese","Even though you tread slowly over your rice field it will become muddy."
"Japanese","Even when a samurai has not eaten, he holds his toothpick high."
"Japanese","Even when he has not eaten, a samurai wields his toothpick."
"Japanese","Even when months and days are long, life is short."
"Japanese","Even when our sleeves brush together it is our karma."
"Japanese","Every fashion goes out of style."
"Japanese","Every little yielding to anxiety is a step away from the natural heart of man."
"Japanese","Even in hell you meet relations."
"Japanese","Fast Ripe, Fast Rotten."
"Japanese","Having conquered, tighten the thongs of your helmet."
"Japanese","He draws water over his own rice field."
"Japanese","He flies into the flame, the summer insect."
"Japanese","He is not poor that hath not feel content."
"Japanese","He is poor who does not feel content."
"Japanese","He is rich who knows when he has enough."
"Japanese","He who admits to his ignorance shows it once only; he who tries to hide it shows it frequently."
"Japanese","He who burns his mouth on the soup will blow on a cold fish dish."
"Japanese","He who buys useless things, later sells things that he needs."
"Japanese","He who eats globefish soup is a fool; so is he who does not."
"Japanese","Happiness spring -- cleans the heart."
"Japanese","He who hunts two hares leaves one and loses the other."
"Japanese","He who has gold is served by the devil."
"Japanese","He who insults another, digs two graves."
"Japanese","He who is always right will never get round the world."
"Japanese","He who is dependant on others must make friends with the dog."
"Japanese","He who is desperate will squeeze oil out of a grain of sand."
"Japanese","He who is too servile ruins his back."
"Japanese","He who knows not when he has enough, is poor."
"Japanese","He who makes the first bad move always loses the game."
"Japanese","He who never goes is a fool; he who goes twice is also a fool."
"Japanese","He who sits in the shade won't take an axe to the tree."
"Japanese","He who smells does not know it himself."
"Japanese","Forgiving the unrepentant is like drawing pictures on water."
"Japanese","Getting money is like digging with a needle. Spending it is like water soaking into the sand."
"Japanese","Happiness rarely keeps company with an empty stomach."
"Japanese","Fortune will call at the smiling gate."
"Japanese","Fortunes exist among leftovers."
"Japanese","From gods that are left alone, there is no curse."
"Japanese","From the mouths of babes and drunkards, you will learn the truth."
"Japanese","Generals conquer, soldiers are killed."
"Japanese","Giving gold coins to a cat."
"Japanese","God lives in an honest heart."
"Japanese","Good luck in business is like the froth on an ox's face."
"Japanese","Good medicine often has a bitter taste."
"Japanese","Good things are never cheap."
"Japanese","Had the pheasant not screamed, it wouldn't have been shot."
"Japanese","Gain from your opponents without sacrificing your own strength."
"Japanese","Half an hour in a spring evening is worth a thousand gold pieces."
"Japanese","Good things, many devils."
"Japanese","Growing rice gives you more than poetry will."
"Japanese","Grief itches but scratching it makes it worse."
"Japanese","Greetings are the patron gods of our time."
"Japanese","Great trees are envied by the wind."
"Japanese","Great talents mature late."
"Japanese","Great deeds come from times of shortage."
"Japanese","Gossip about a person and his shadow will appear."
"Japanese","Great villainy is often called loyalty."
"Japanese","A mended lid to a cracked pan."
"Japanese","The mouth is the door of evil."
"Japanese","After victory, tighten your helmet chord."
"Japanese","All married women are not wives."
"Japanese","Afraid of his own shadow."
"Japanese","Affinity is a mysterious thing, but it is spicy!"
"Japanese","Adversity is the foundation of virtue."
"Japanese","A round egg can be made square according to how you cut it; words would be harsh according to how you speak them."
"Japanese","A pig used to dirt turns its nose up at rice."
"Japanese","A merchants happiness hangs upon chance, winds, and waves."
"Japanese","A man in love mistakes a pimple for a dimple."
"Japanese","A good sword is the one left in its scabbard."
"Japanese","A good Jack makes a good Jill."
"Japanese","A good husband is healthy and absent."
"Japanese","A fog cannot be dispelled by a fan."
"Japanese","The nail that sticks up will be hammered down."
"Japanese","A merry companion on the road is as good as a nag."
"Japanese","If the father is a frog, the son will be a frog."
"Japanese","Life's not all beer and skittles."
"Japanese","Life without endeavor is like entering a jewel-mine and coming out with empty hands."
"Japanese","Laughter is the hiccup of a fool."
"Japanese","Laughter cannot bring back what anger has driven away."
"Japanese","Knowledge without wisdom is a load of books on the back of an ass."
"Japanese","It is a blessing in disguise."
"Japanese","It is a beggar's pride that he is not a thief."
"Japanese","If you want a thing done well, do it yourself."
"Japanese","Forgiving the unrepentant is like drawing pictures on water."
"Japanese","If you believe everything you read, better not read."
"Japanese","Money has no smell."
"Japanese","If one man praises you, a thousand will repeat the praise."
"Japanese","If neither animal nor vegetable you be, then mineral you are."
"Japanese","If my shirt knew my design, I'd burn it."
"Japanese","If money be not thy servant, it will be thy master."
"Japanese","If man has no tea in him, he is incapable of understanding truth and beauty."
"Japanese","If a man deceive me once, shame on him; if he deceive me twice, shame on me."
"Japanese","If a man be great, even his dog will wear a proud look."
"Japanese","The go-between wears out a thousand sandals."
"Japanese","If you understand everything, you must be misinformed."
"Japanese","Only lawyers and painters can turn white to black."
"Japanese","The nail that sticks its head up is the one that gets hit."
"Japanese","The nail that sticks out is hammered down."
"Japanese","The inarticulate speak longest."
"Japanese","An accomplishment sticks to a person."
"Japanese","The day you decide to do it is your lucky day."
"Japanese","The crow that mimics a cormorant is drowned."
"Japanese","The absent get further off every day."
"Japanese","Sleeping people can't fall down."
"Japanese","Luck is like having a rice dumpling fly into your mouth."
"Japanese","Silence surpasses speech."
"Japanese","Money grows on the tree of persistence."
"Japanese","One written word is worth a thousand pieces of gold."
"Japanese","One who smiles rather than rages is always the stronger."
"Japanese","One kindness is the price of another."
"Japanese","One kind word can warm three winter months."
"Japanese","One dog yelping at nothing will set ten thousand straining at their collars."
"Japanese","Never rely on the glory of the morning or the smiles of your mother-in-law."
"Japanese","My son is my son till he gets him a wife, but my daughter's my daughter all the days of her life."
"Japanese","My skirt with tears is always wet: I have forgotten to forget."
"Japanese","First things first."
"Japanese","Silent worms dig holes in the walls."
"Japanese","To tell tales out of school."
"Japanese","Getting money is like digging with a needle. Spending it is like water soaking into the sand."
"Japanese","We are no more than candles burning in the wind."
"Japanese","Walls have ears, paper sliding doors have eyes."
"Japanese","Walls have ears, bottles have mouths."
"Japanese","Vision without action is a daydream. Action with without vision is a nightmare."
"Japanese","Vision with action is a daydream; action without vision is a nightmare."
"Japanese","Virtue is not knowing but doing."
"Japanese","Unless you enter the tiger's den you cannot take the cubs."
"Japanese","We're fools whether we dance or not, so we might as well dance."
"Japanese","To wait for luck is the same as waiting for death."
"Japanese","We've arrived, and to prove it we're here."
"Japanese","To teach is also to learn."
"Japanese","Time tries a'."
"Japanese","Time spent laughing is time spent with the gods."
"Japanese","The tongue is more to be feared than the sword."
"Japanese","The tongue is but three inches long, yet it can kill a man six feet high."
"Japanese","The smallest good deed is better than the grandest good intention."
"Japanese","The smaller the margin, the greater the turnover."
"Japanese","The reverse side also has a reverse side."
"Japanese","Transactions in Hell also depend upon money."
"Japanese","Beaten with his own rod."
"Japanese","First the man takes a drink, then the drink takes a drink, then the drink takes the man."
"Japanese","Fast Ripe, Fast Rotten."
"Japanese","Fall seven times, stand up eight."
"Japanese","Even a thief takes ten years to learn his trade."
"Japanese","Even a sheet of paper has two sides."
"Japanese","Don't stay long when the husband is not at home."
"Japanese","Deceiving a deceiver is no knavery."
"Japanese","Deceive the rich and powerful if you will, but don't insult them."
"Japanese","We learn little from victory, much from defeat."
"Japanese","Better go without medicine than call in an unskilled physician."
"Japanese","The pebble in the brook secretly thinks itself a precious stone."
"Japanese","Beat your wife on the wedding day, and your married life will be happy."
"Japanese","Bad and good are intertwined like rope."
"Japanese","An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth."
"Japanese","An excess of courtesy is discourtesy."
"Japanese","Wisdom and virtue are like the two wheels of a cart."
"Japanese","While we consider when to begin, it becomes too late."
"Japanese","When your companions get drunk and fight, Take up your hat, and wish them good night."
"Japanese","When you're thirsty it's too late to think about digging a well."
"Japanese","When the time comes, even a rat becomes a tiger."
"Japanese","Darkness reigns at the foot of the lighthouse."
"Jewish","He who puts up with insult invites injury."
"Jewish","Ask about your neighbors, then buy the house."
"Jewish","God could not be everywhere and therefore he made mothers."
"Jewish","Pride is the mask of one's own faults."
"Jewish","Don't be too sweet lest you be eaten up; don't be too bitter lest you be spewed out."
"Jewish","A half-truth is a whole lie."
"Jewish","The only truly dead are those who have been forgotten."
"Jewish","God could not be everywhere and therefore he made mothers."
"Jewish","Don't live in a town where there are no doctors."
"Jewish","Don't open a shop unless you know how to smile."
"Jewish","When you have no choice, mobilize the spirit of courage."
"Jewish","What you don't see with your eyes, don't invent with your mouth."
"Jewish","If you can't go over, you must go under."
"Jewish","Look for the good, not the evil, in the conduct of members of the family."
"Jewish","Make sure to be in with your equals if you're going to fall out with your superiors."
"Jewish","The righteous say little and do much."
"Jewish","When a habit begins to cost money, it's called a hobby."
"Jewish","When a father helps a son, both smile; but when a son must help his father, both cry."
"Jewish","When a father gives to his son, both laugh; when a son gives to his father, both cry."
"Jewish","What you give for the cause of charity in health is gold; what you give in sickness is silver; what you give after death is lead."
"Jewish","What you don't see with your eyes, don't witness with your mouth."
"Jewish","What soap is for the body, tears are for the soul."
"Jewish","What one has, one doesn't want, and what one wants, one doesn't have."
"Jewish","The rich man carries God in his pocket, the poor man in his heart."
"Jewish","There is no book that contains absolutely nothing bad, and there is no book that contains absolutely nothing good."
"Jewish","The poor fool is a man who falls on his back and breaks his nose."
"Jewish","Your friend has a friend; don't tell him."
"Jewish","When con men meet a legitimately honest man, they are so bewildered that they consider him a greater con man than themselves."
"Jewish","Truth is the safest lie."
"Jewish","When two divorced people marry, four people get into bed."
"Jewish","When you have no choice, mobilize the spirit of courage."
"Jewish","When you open a door, don't forget to close it. Treat your mouth accordingly."
"Jewish","Where two Jews, three opinions."
"Jewish","Who finds a faithful friend, finds a treasure."
"Jewish","Whoever does not try, does not learn."
"Jewish","Whoever enjoys his life is doing the Creator's will."
"Jewish","With money in your pocket, you are wise, and you are handsome, and you sing well too."
"Jewish","Worries go down better with soup than without."
"Jewish","You can't force anyone to love you or lend you money."
"Jewish","Beware of the person who gives you advice according to his own interests."
"Jewish","Your friend has a friend, and your friend's friend has another friend -- so know when to keep quiet."
"Jewish","The person who only accepts friends without faults will never have any real friends."
"Jewish","You don't need intelligence to have luck, but you do need luck to have intelligence."
"Jewish","Don't live in a town where there are no doctors."
"Jewish","First mend yourself, and then mend others."
"Jewish","First learn, and then form opinions."
"Jewish","First improve yourself, and then judge others."
"Jewish","Even the most expensive clock still shows sixty minutes in every hour."
"Jewish","Don't trust someone who tells you all of his troubles and keeps you from all of his joys."
"Jewish","Don't sell the sun to buy a candle."
"Jewish","Don't pick a wasp out of a cream-jug."
"Jewish","Don't open a shop unless you know how to smile."
"Jewish","Don't make a toil of pleasure."
"Jewish","Don't make a mountain out of a molehill."
"Jewish","Don't make a fence more expensive or more important than what it is fencing."
"Jewish","As you teach, you learn."
"Jewish","Don't look a gift horse in the mouth."
"Jewish","God gives burdens also shoulders."
"Jewish","Don't be too sweet, or else you will be eaten up; but don't be too bitter, or else you will be spitted out."
"Jewish","Don't be sweet, lest you be eaten up; don't be bitter, lest you be spewed out."
"Jewish","Don't approach a goat from the front, a horse from the back, or a fool from any side."
"Jewish","Do not meet troubles half-way."
"Jewish","Do not make yourself so big, you are not so small."
"Jewish","Do not be wise in words - be wise in deeds."
"Jewish","Do not ask questions of fairy tales."
"Jewish","Charity is the spice of riches."
"Jewish","Be the day weary or be the day long, at last it ringeth to evensong."
"Jewish","Be sure to send a lazy man for the angel of death."
"Jewish","Ask about your neighbors, then buy the house."
"Jewish","Don't look for more honor than your learning merits."
"Jewish","If the rich could hire someone else to die for them, the poor would make a wonderful living."
"Jewish","Commit a sin twice and it will not seem a crime."
"Jewish","The only truly dead are those who have been forgotten."
"Jewish","Life is the biggest bargain. We get it for nothing."
"Jewish","Let your ears hear what your mouth says."
"Jewish","It is easier to guard a sack full of fleas than a girl in love."
"Jewish","In choosing a friend, go up a step."
"Jewish","In a restaurant choose a table near a waiter."
"Jewish","If you lie on the ground, you cannot fall."
"Jewish","If you have money, men think you are wise, handsome, and able to sing like a bird."
"Jewish","If you don't aspire to great things, you won't attain small things."
"Jewish","If you can't go over, you must go under."
"Jewish","God could not be everywhere and therefore he made mothers."
"Jewish","If the rich could hire the poor to die for them, the poor would make a very nice living."
"Jewish","God couldn't be everywhere, so he created mothers."
"Jewish","If not for fear, sin would be sweet."
"Jewish","If God lived on earth, people would break his windows."
"Jewish","If charity cost nothing, the world would be full of philanthropists."
"Jewish","Ideas are something that usually comes like fireman- too late."
"Jewish","I felt sorry for myself because I had no shoes -- until I met a man who had no feet."
"Jewish","Hospitality is one form of worship."
"Jewish","He who puts up with insult invites injury."
"Jewish","He who prays for his neighbor will be heard for himself."
"Jewish","He that does not bring up his son to some honest calling and employment, brings him up to be a thief."
"Jewish","He that can't endure the bad, will not live to see the good."
"Jewish","God is closest to those with broken hearts."
"Jewish","Don't ask questions of fairy tales."
"Jewish","If there is bitterness in the heart, sugar in the mouth won't make life sweeter."
"Jewish","People make plans and God laughs."
"Jewish","Loneliness breaks the spirit."
"Jewish","Look for the good, not the evil, in the conduct of members of the family."
"Jewish","Loose tongues are worse than wicked hands."
"Jewish","Make sure to be in with your equals if you're going to fall out with your superiors."
"Jewish","Make sure to send a lazy man for the Angel of Death."
"Jewish","Make sure to send a lazy man the angel of death."
"Jewish","Never trust people who tell you all their troubles but keep from you all their joys."
"Jewish","Never trust the man who tells you all his troubles but keeps from you all his joys."
"Jewish","As you do, so will be done to you."
"Jewish","One mother achieves more than a hundred teachers."
"Jewish","Don't be too sweet lest you be eaten up; don't be too bitter lest you be spewed out."
"Jewish","Locks keep out only the honest."
"Jewish","People are like grass in the field: some blossom, some wither."
"Jewish","No one is as deaf as the man who will not listen."
"Jewish","Pray that you will never have to bear all that you are able to endure."
"Jewish","Prepare your proof before you argue."
"Jewish","Pride is the mask of one's own faults."
"Jewish","Pride joined with many virtues chokes them all."
"Jewish","Pride that dined with vanity supped with poverty."
"Jewish","Sympathy doesn't provide food, but it makes hunger more endurable."
"Jewish","Sympathy doesn't provide food, but it makes hunger more endurable."
"Jewish","Sympathy is a little medicine to soothe the ache in another's heart."
"Jewish","Teach your tongue to say ""I don't know"" instead of to make up something."
"Jewish","The good fellow to everyone is a good friend to no one."
"Jewish","The innkeeper loves a drunkard, but not for a son-in-law."
"Jewish","The man who gives little with a smile gives more than the man who gives much with a frown."
"Jewish","Only love gives us the taste of eternity."
"Jewish","All things grow with time -- except grief."
"Jewish","As he thinks in his heart, so he is."
"Jewish","Anyone who teases you loves you."
"Jewish","One of life's greatest mysteries is how the boy who wasn't good enough to marry your daughter can be the father of the smartest grandchild in the world."
"Jewish","Among those who stand, do not sit; among those who sit, do not stand. Among those who laugh, do not weep; among those who weep, do not laugh."
"Jewish","Against stupidity; God Himself is helpless."
"Jewish","A slave shows his true character, not while he is enslaved but when he becomes a master."
"Jewish","A pessimist, confronted with two bad choices, chooses both."
"Jewish","A person worries about the past, distresses about the present, and fears the future."
"Jewish","A mother understands what a child does not say."
"Jewish","A half-truth is a whole lie."
"Jewish","A good son-in-law is like the acquisition of a new son; a bad one is like the loss of your daughter."
"Jewish","A friend you have to buy; enemies you get for nothing."
"Jewish","A cheerful heart is good medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones."
"Jewish","Rejoice not at thine enemy's fall--but don't rush to pick his up, either."
"Jewish","A bird that you set free may be caught again, but a word that escapes your lips will not return."
"Jewish","Pride that dined with vanity supped with poverty."
"Jewish","The innkeeper loves a drunkard, but not for a son-in-law."
"Jewish","If you can't go over, you must go under."
"Jewish","In a restaurant choose a table near a waiter."
"Jewish","Look for the good, not the evil, in the conduct of members of the family."
"Jewish","Make sure to be in with your equals if you're going to fall out with your superiors."
"Jewish","Never trust people who tell you all their troubles but keep from you all their joys."
"Jewish","Never trust the man who tells you all his troubles but keeps from you all his joys."
"Jewish","Prepare your proof before you argue."
"Jewish","If the rich could hire someone else to die for them, the poor would make a wonderful living."
"Jewish","A half-truth is a whole lie."
"Jewish","Rejoice not at thine enemy's fall--but don't rush to pick his up, either."
"Jewish","Pride is the mask of one's own faults."
"Jewish","What you don't see with your eyes, don't invent with your mouth."
"Jewish","When two divorced people marry, four people get into bed."
"Jewish","When you have no choice, mobilize the spirit of courage."
"Jewish","With money in your pocket you are wise, you are handsome, and you sing well too."
"Jewish","You can't force anyone to love you or lend you money."
"Jewish","Your friend has a friend; don't tell him."
"Jewish","Pride joined with many virtues chokes them all."
"Jewish","Be the day weary or be the day long, at last it ringeth to evensong."
"Jewish","The only truly dead are those who have been forgotten."
"Jewish","If God lived on earth, people would break his windows."
"Jewish","Among those who stand, do not sit; among those who sit, do not stand. Among those who laugh, do not weep; among those who weep, do not laugh."
"Jewish","Anyone who teases you loves you."
"Jewish","Be sure to send a lazy man for the angel of death."
"Jewish","Do not ask questions of fairy tales."
"Jewish","Do not make yourself so big, you are not so small."
"Jewish","Do not meet troubles half-way."
"Jewish","God gives burdens also shoulders."
"Jewish","Don't look a gift horse in the mouth."
"Jewish","Don't make a mountain out of a molehill."
"Jewish","Don't make a toil of pleasure."
"Jewish","Don't open a shop unless you know how to smile."
"Jewish","Don't pick a wasp out of a cream-jug."
"Jewish","God could not be everywhere and therefore he made mothers."
"Jewish","Don't be too sweet lest you be eaten up; don't be too bitter lest you be spewed out."
"Jewish","Ask about your neighbors, then buy the house."
"Jewish","He who puts up with insult invites injury."
"Kamba","All monkeys cannot hang on one branch."
"Kamba","An old man doesn't know what makes him herd again."
"Kamba","One in the woodpile does not laugh at one in the fire."
"Kamba","Only a medicine man gets rich by sleeping."
"Kamba","The person who has not traveled thinks his or her mother is the best cook."
"Kamba","A woman's stomach does not grow if she is not pregnant."
"Kamba","Despite your bark, you'll be eaten."
"Kanem","We will water the thorn for the sake of the rose."
"Kanuri","You cannot handle fire with your hands."
"Kanuri","Hope is the pillar of the world."
"Kaonde","A rope which is pulled for a long time, breaks."
"Kaonde","A dog which steals leaves its puppies a bad name."
"Kashmiri","The innocent often pay for the acts of the guilty. "
"Kashmiri","Clean your heart and mind of negative thoughts. "
"Kashmiri","To most people), distant pepper is perceived as being sweet, and close sweets are perceived as being bitter."
"Kashmiri","With the right trap, even an elephant can be caught."
"Kashmiri","If a mans beard is on fire, there are bound to be plenty of people who will want to warm their hands on the fire."
"Kashmiri","(When well united and synergized), one plus one equals eleven."
"Kashmiri","The healthy person experiences a healthy world. "
"Kashmiri","Bachelors want to get married, while married men regret that they did."
"Kashmiri","A simple meal at home is better than an elaborate one while away. "
"Kashmiri","If its not gossip, then why are you whispering it?"
"Kashmiri","Thunder is not the source of the rain. "
"Kashmiri","Rice tastes good when it is cooked properly, and talking is good when it is said at the right time."
"Kashmiri","Dogs fight with each other, but unite when they hear the voice of a jackal."
"Kashmiri","The message spoken to the daughter is often aimed at the daughter-in-law. "
"Kashmiri","(Dont try to) cook six liters of food in a pot that only holds three liters. "
"Kashmiri","Saving the mustard seeds that are in your hand might cause you to miss out on getting a watermelon. "
"Kashmiri","(Its useless to attempt to) carry water in baskets. "
"Kashmiri","When pumpkins are watered, brinjals (a small vegetable) also get watered."
"Kashmiri","For every hundred lashes needed by the foolish, only one word is needed by the wise."
"Kashmiri","The fall is nobody's sire."
"Kashmiri","The danger past, and God forgotten."
"Kashmiri","The customers are known to the shopkeepers."
"Kashmiri","The bachelors crave it, and the married ones regret it."
"Kashmiri","Service is greatness."
"Kashmiri","One man's beard is on fire, and another man warms his hands on it."
"Kashmiri","One plus one makes eleven."
"Kashmiri","One man's breath's another man's death."
"Kashmiri","The gardener had not yet dug out the radish, when the beggar held the alms-bowl in front of him."
"Kashmiri","Unity is equal to a thousand golden coins."
"Kashmiri","Saving mustard seeds in hand, while a watermelon escapes."
"Kashmiri","The hen scratches and the chicken learns."
"Kashmiri","The sufferer goes through hell till the truth comes out."
"Kashmiri","To roast fish on sky and to eat them."
"Kashmiri","To serve a mean person, is to beat the earth."
"Kashmiri","Wisdom and serenity should not unduly weigh down a person."
"Kashmiri","Two's company, the third person is an intruder."
"Kashmiri","Unity is strength."
"Kashmiri","What care is a friend worth? What handling can a chickling take?"
"Kashmiri","When pumpkins are watered, brinjals also get watered."
"Kashmiri","When rogues fallout, honest men come by their own."
"Kashmiri","No sweet without sweat."
"Kashmiri","One man cut the barrage, and a thousand people fell into the river."
"Kashmiri","True religion is in one's heart."
"Kashmiri","The mother keeps on caring for her daughter while the daughter keeps on craving for her husband."
"Kashmiri","One should strive to maintain one's honour."
"Kashmiri","One should try to get enormously benefited by a small effort."
"Kashmiri","People pretend to dislike what they cannot get."
"Kashmiri","Prosperity improves one's personality, adversity cripples it."
"Kashmiri","Prosperity teaches one, and poverty puts one to shame."
"Kashmiri","Relations last longer when the family is in distress."
"Kashmiri","Rice tastes good when properly cooked, and talking is good when the opportunity is ripe."
"Kashmiri","She wants to have buttermilk, but has hidden the pot brought for it behind one's back."
"Kashmiri","Strive to live well within your means."
"Kashmiri","The bachelors crave to get married, and the married ones regret they got married."
"Kashmiri","The customers are known to the shopkeeper."
"Kashmiri","The flea sinned, the reed-mat got the beating."
"Kashmiri","The income is like jasmine."
"Kashmiri","While alive in rags; when dead in satin to cover the body."
"Kashmiri","To serve a mean man may not be profitable."
"Kashmiri","Obeisance to the self that is a reflection of eternal reality."
"Kashmiri","Whatever has bloomed, has bloomed from the very bud."
"Kashmiri","Welcome an opportunity as it comes."
"Kashmiri","Unwanted meddling in affairs could prove harmful."
"Kashmiri","Unity can be equal to a thousand golden coins."
"Kashmiri","The lightest is to be barefooted."
"Kashmiri","To show one's fist to a blind man is neither a sin nor a virtue."
"Kashmiri","The members of the family are in distress, but the idols are worshipped."
"Kashmiri","To search for thorns in the milk."
"Kashmiri","To get silk from a stone."
"Kashmiri","To chalk out preventive measures in good time before an emergency is much warranted."
"Kashmiri","The wiser the man, the more in trouble."
"Kashmiri","The sparrow feels comfortable on the thorn bush."
"Kashmiri","One man's beard is on fire, and another man warms his hands on it."
"Kashmiri","To smell one's own bosom is fit."
"Kashmiri","After killing a yakur bird your hands will stink."
"Kashmiri","One should set sails with the tide."
"Kashmiri","Economize expenditure."
"Kashmiri","Don't build the bungalow on an inch of ground."
"Kashmiri","Distance lends enchantment."
"Kashmiri","Diamond cuts diamond."
"Kashmiri","Good connections should pay."
"Kashmiri","An idle person may have just three tasks: sleeping, eating and quarrelling."
"Kashmiri","Good people are gentle."
"Kashmiri","A very jealous person is glad when somebody else cries, and sighs when others laugh."
"Kashmiri","A truly educated person is a gem."
"Kashmiri","A lie doesn't have a foot to stand on."
"Kashmiri","A king for a moment, and a beggar soon after."
"Kashmiri","A human being is quite impatient."
"Kashmiri","A confused man is like the drowning man who asks for pears from the willow tree."
"Kashmiri","Anyone can be trapped."
"Kashmiri","It may not pay to weigh everyone in the same scales."
"Kashmiri","You may adopt an indirect approach to reach your goal."
"Kashmiri","One man cut the bund/barrage, and a thousand people fell into the river."
"Kashmiri","Nine days wonders are forgotten soon after that."
"Kashmiri","Never scatter pearls for the cocks."
"Kashmiri","Maybe a naked person should not be taken to a cloth shop."
"Kashmiri","First for self, then for the stranger."
"Kashmiri","Lice flourish in rags."
"Kashmiri","One may be generous at heart, but may not be able to afford it."
"Kashmiri","It may be easier to perceive error than to find truth."
"Kashmiri","It is not the thunder that causes the rain."
"Kashmiri","It does not pay to talk a lot."
"Kashmiri","It can be impossible to change an established image."
"Kashmiri","If you don't have an enemy, don't you have a cousin?"
"Kashmiri","Good people have set sail to arrive at such gentleness as cuts like diamonds"
"Kashmiri","May God save me from the one I saved."
"Kashmiri","I bought the nettle, sowed the nettle, and then the nettle stung me."
"Kashmiri","When pumpkins are watered, brinjals also get watered."
"Kashmiri","One man can burn water, whereas another cannot even burn oil."
"Kashmiri","Among the ignorant a little knowledge is of great value."
"Kashmiri","Bad times came to be; hens on thrones we were to see."
"Kashmiri","Bolted windows with the door ajar."
"Kashmiri","Clean your heart and mind of negative thoughts."
"Kashmiri","Destiny often withholds the crown from the very person who deserves it."
"Kashmiri","Don't count your chicken before they hatch."
"Kashmiri","Eleven persons take eleven paths."
"Kashmiri","Empty vessels make much noise."
"Kashmiri","Food will last while the forests last."
"Kashmiri","Forcing a bludgeon through a chinar trunk. Doing the impossible."
"Kashmiri","God is the friend of both the simple guy and the leper."
"Kashmiri","If it comes, it is golden; if it doesn't, it was made of grass."
"Kashmiri","One and one are sometimes eleven."
"Kashmiri","A blind man's wife is God's keeping."
"Kashmiri","A kick works as a treatment to a hunch backed person."
"Kashmiri","A king for a moment, and a beggar soon after."
"Kashmiri","A man loves his own shortcomings."
"Kashmiri","A pestle upon a peg, and a mortar upon a clothes line."
"Kashmiri","Giving advice to a stupid man is like giving salt to a squirrel."
"Kashmiri","Agreement with two people, lamentation with three."
"Kashmiri","Ignorance is the peace of life."
"Kashmiri","O daughter, I'm telling you. O daughter-in-law, listen to it."
"Kashmiri","No sunshine but hath some shadow."
"Kashmiri","No strength within, no respect without."
"Kashmiri","Life cannot be trusted; death can come at any moment."
"Kashmiri","Its tuff to find fools; ten in every other house."
"Kashmiri","It doesn't take time to change one's destiny."
"Kashmiri","A single log of wood does not burn even in an oven."
"Kashmiri","Service is greatness."
"Kashmiri","The customers are known to the shopkeepers."
"Kashmiri","The danger past, and God forgotten."
"Kashmiri","The fall is nobody's sire."
"Kashmiri","The gardener had not yet dug out the radish, when the beggar held the alms-bowl in front of him."
"Kashmiri","When pumpkins are watered, brinjals [small plants] also get watered."
"Kashmiri","One man's beard is on fire, and another man warms his hands on it."
"Kashmiri","One man's breath's another man's death."
"Kashmiri","Eleven persons take eleven paths."
"Kashmiri","When rogues fallout, honest men come by their own."
"Kashmiri","One man cut the barrage, and a thousand people fell into the river."
"Kashmiri","One man can burn water, whereas another cannot even burn oil."
"Kashmiri","O daughter, I'm telling you. O daughter-in-law, listen to it."
"Kashmiri","No sweet without sweat."
"Kashmiri","No sunshine but hath some shadow."
"Kashmiri","No strength within, no respect without."
"Kashmiri","Ignorance is the peace of life."
"Kashmiri","I bought the nettle, sowed the nettle, and then the nettle stung me."
"Kashmiri","Empty vessels make much noise."
"Kashmiri","Agreement with two people, lamentation with three."
"Kashmiri","Giving advice to a stupid man is like giving salt to a squirrel."
"Kashmiri","Saving mustard seeds in hand, while a watermelon escapes."
"Kenya","A person changing his clothing always hides while changing."
"Kenya","A boy isn't sent to collect the honey."
"Kenya","Good millet is known at the harvest."
"Kenya","A donkey always says thank you with a kick."
"Kenya","A man who continually laments is not heeded."
"Kenya","Many births mean many burials."
"Kenya","Virtue is better than wealth."
"Kenya","Try this bracelet: if it fits you wear it; but if it hurts you, throw it away no matter how shiny."
"Kenya","Thunder is not yet rain."
"Kenya","Those who get to the river early drink the cleanest water."
"Kenya","There is no phrase without a double meaning."
"Kenya","There is no cure that does not cost."
"Kenya","The important things are left in the locker."
"Kenya","Talking with one another is loving one another."
"Kenya","Soon found soon lost."
"Kenya","Seeing is different from being told."
"Kenya","One finger alone cannot kill even a louse."
"Kenya","Because a man has injured your goat, do not go out and kill his bull."
"Kenya","Nobody gathers firewood to roast a thin goat."
"Kenya","Absence makes the heart forget."
"Kenya","It is the duty of children to wait on elders, and not the elders on children."
"Kenya","If a dead tree falls, it carries with it a live one."
"Kenya","Hurry hurry has no blessings."
"Kenya","Home affairs are not talked about on the public square."
"Kenya","Hearts do not meet one another like roads."
"Kenya","He who receives a gift does not measure."
"Kenya","He who is unable to dance says that the yard is stony."
"Kenya","He who does not know one thing knows another."
"Kenya","Having a good discussion is like having riches."
"Kenya","Do not say the first thing that comes to your mind"
"Kenya","After a foolish deed comes remorse."
"Kenya","One does not slaughter a calf before its mother's eyes."
"Kenya","How easy it is to defeat people who do not kindle fire for themselves."
"Kenya","How gently glides the married life away, When she who rules still seems but to obey."
"Kenya","A slave has no choice."
"Kenyan","Affairs of the home should not be discussed in the public square."
"Kenyan","It is the duty of children to wait on elders, and not the elders on children."
"Kenyan","He who is unable to dance says the yard is stony."
"Kenyan","He who refuses to obey cannot command."
"Kenyan","Hearts do not meet one another like roads."
"Kenyan","How easy it is to defeat people who do not kindle fire for themselves."
"Kenyan","How gently glides the married life away, When she who rules still seems but to obey."
"Kenyan","Hurrying has no blessing."
"Kenyan","One finger alone cannot even kill a louse."
"Kenyan","If you receive a gift don't measure it."
"Kenyan","Having a good discussion is like having riches."
"Kenyan","Just because he harmed your goat, do not go out and kill his bull."
"Kenyan","Never let a hyena know how well you can bite."
"Kenyan","No attention is paid to him who is always complaining."
"Kenyan","Nobody gathers firewood to roast a thin goat."
"Kenyan","Nobody walks with another man's gait."
"Kenyan","Old age devours your youth."
"Kenyan","Once you have been tossed by a buffalo, a black ox looks like a buffalo."
"Kenyan","If a dead tree falls, it carries with it a live one."
"Kenyan","After a foolish deed comes remorse."
"Kenyan","A donkey always says thank you with a kick."
"Kenyan","A flea can trouble a lion more than the lion can harm a flea."
"Kenyan","A heavy burden does not kill on the day it is carried."
"Kenyan","A loved one has no pimples."
"Kenyan","A man's actions are more important than his ancestry."
"Kenyan","A person changing his clothing always hides while changing."
"Kenyan","A slave has no choice."
"Kenyan","He who is unable to dance blames it in the stony yard."
"Kenyan","Absence makes the heart forget."
"Kenyan","He who does not know one thing knows another."
"Kenyan","Because a man has injured your goat, do not go out and kill his bull."
"Kenyan","Crawling on hands and knees has never prevented anyone from walking upright."
"Kenyan","Do not say the first thing that comes to your mind."
"Kenyan","Do not slaughter a calf before its mother's eyes."
"Kenyan","Don't count what they get -- they count what they don't get."
"Kenyan","Each has his own way of moving."
"Kenyan","Blind belief is dangerous."
"Kenyan","A white dog does not bite another white dog."
"Kenyan","Treat the earth well. It was not given to you by your parents. It is loaned to you by your children."
"Kenyan","All cassavahs have the same skins but not all taste the same."
"Kenyan","Only believe a woman one day later."
"Kenyan","At the harvest you know how good the millet is."
"Kenyan","You may laugh at a friend's roof; don't laugh at his sleeping accommodation."
"Kenyan","When you take a knife away from a child, give him a piece of wood instead."
"Kenyan","When the figs are ripe all the birds want to eat."
"Kenyan","What's too hard for a man must be worth looking into."
"Kenyan","We have not inherited this land from our ancestors; rather we have borrowed it from our children."
"Kenyan","Virtue is better than wealth."
"Kenyan","Treat the world well. It was not given to you by your parents. It was willed to you by your children."
"Kenyan","Thunder is not yet rain."
"Kenyan","Talking with one another is loving one another."
"Kenyan","Only scratch where you can reach."
"Kenyan","Seeing is different from being told."
"Kenyan","Soon found, soon lost."
"Kenyan","Try this bracelet: if it fits you wear it; but if it hurts you, throw it away no matter how much it sparkles."
"Kenyan","Talking to one another is loving one another."
"Kenyan","There is no phrase that doesn't have a double meaning."
"Kenyan","The day before yesterday and yesterday are not the same as today."
"Kenyan","The enemy you know is better than the one you do not know."
"Kenyan","The water of the river flows on without waiting for the thirsty man."
"Kenyan","There is no cure that does not have its price."
"Kenyan","Sticks in a bundle are unbreakable."
"Kenyan","Having a good discussion is like having riches."
"Kenyan","You may laugh at a friend's roof; don't laugh at his sleeping accommodation."
"Kenyan","We have not inherited this land from our ancestors; rather we have borrowed it from our children."
"Kenyan","Nobody gathers firewood to roast a thin goat."
"Kenyan","He who is unable to dance says the yard is stony."
"Kenyan","Because a man has injured your goat, do not go out and kill his bull."
"Kenyan","All cassavahs have the same skins but not all taste the same."
"Kenyan","A person changing his clothing always hides while changing."
"Kenyan","A donkey always says thank you with a kick."
"Kenyan","Hurrying has no blessing."
"Khakas","Learning is better than becoming rich."
"Khakas","Seven people do not wait for one person."
"Khakas","The hurrying fly falls into the milk."
"Khakas","Moss grows on a lying stone."
"Khakas","Horses become acquainted by neighing, people by talking."
"Khakas","Every fox praises its tail."
"Khakas","A fearful person even fears the hare."
"Khakas","An autumn day feeds a whole winter."
"Kiganda","Elderliness is not a disease, but a richness."
"Kiganda","A united family eats from the same plate."
"Kiganda","A person who never travels, believes his mother's cooking is the best in the world."
"Kiganda","Drums are never beat without reason."
"Kiganda","If you educate a woman, you have educated a population."
"Kikuyu","The war of the eyes never comes to an end."
"Kikuyu","The vulture perches on the trees because it does not feel sure on the groung."
"Kikuyu","The village, which has got a whetstone, does not blunt the knife."
"Kikuyu","The tooth laughs with the lance."
"Kikuyu","The timid ox drinks muddy watr."
"Kikuyu","The stream does not pass over an old stone."
"Kikuyu","The war that has no unity will make no prey,."
"Kikuyu","The song of a stranger-woman is answered after she has gone."
"Kikuyu","The son does not cut his finger in cutting meat for his father."
"Kikuyu","The sky is heavy with rain, but does not come."
"Kikuyu","The river is crossed where it is shallow."
"Kikuyu","The song that has no leader, goes wrong."
"Kikuyu","The whetstone in a village does no blunt the knife."
"Kikuyu","The widow's sons have not tears."
"Kikuyu","The woman who gives birth to a child is like the banana tree that breaks under the weight of its fruit."
"Kikuyu","The word that remains in the belly does not mean anything."
"Kikuyu","There is no mischance you are guaranteed against."
"Kikuyu","There is no bow without its meat."
"Kikuyu","There is no butcher that does not slaughter."
"Kikuyu","There is no difference between the thief and the looker-on."
"Kikuyu","There is no location which discusses its affairs in the same way as the other does."
"Kikuyu","There is no man that cannot become an orphan."
"Kikuyu","The rich man cannot be prevented from cyltivating the 'iganjo' he wants."
"Kikuyu","There is no name which cannot distinguish a child."
"Kikuyu","The man that serves is not prevented from being served in turn."
"Kikuyu","The woman whose sons have died is richer than a barren woman."
"Kikuyu","The only friendly cow is the one which gives milk."
"Kikuyu","To forget a strong man who could help you is the same as to scorn him."
"Kikuyu","There is no nice bird in the millet."
"Kikuyu","The hyena does not eat its baby, and you know how insatiable it is."
"Kikuyu","The Kikuyu know how to conceal their quiver, but do not know how to conceal their secrets."
"Kikuyu","The land enriches not people who clear it, but people who come."
"Kikuyu","The lawsuit of a fool keeps the court all day."
"Kikuyu","The little bird that flaps its wings too much will spoil them."
"Kikuyu","The man who has no impurity will be helped even by peels he sees on the road."
"Kikuyu","The mouth sells the head."
"Kikuyu","The mouth that has saliva does not lack words."
"Kikuyu","The mouth is a chink."
"Kikuyu","The one who used to jump across the stream may find herself wading through.."
"Kikuyu","The rambling pole-cat leaves its house when there is banquet."
"Kikuyu","The only thing good, though old, is the 'muratina'."
"Kikuyu","The ox that claws the 'kiara' will die."
"Kikuyu","The ox that feeds itself does not spoil its skin."
"Kikuyu","The ox that ran away cannot be caught."
"Kikuyu","The ox which has grown old has no admirer."
"Kikuyu","The ox which has no horns, relies for help on the one that has them."
"Kikuyu","The piece of cloth that is in another's bag does not patch your garmet."
"Kikuyu","The pit allows the grass to fall in."
"Kikuyu","The place to use the club and the above arrow are not the same."
"Kikuyu","The property of a helpless man must nit be divided before his death."
"Kikuyu","The ram that is shown around is not fat."
"Kikuyu","The mouth who ate the seeds asks, 'Now what shall I plant?'."
"Kikuyu","To despise the ox means to despise also a strip of hide from it."
"Kikuyu","To get the warmth of fire one must stir the embers."
"Kikuyu","Travelling is learning."
"Kikuyu","To wait is not to tremble."
"Kikuyu","To stay together is to know each other."
"Kikuyu","To seek a woman to the belly."
"Kikuyu","To pound water with a mortar is futile."
"Kikuyu","To keep one's tongue is worthy of praise."
"Kikuyu","To go does not prevent a man from returning."
"Kikuyu","The hyena calls another hyena worse than itself."
"Kikuyu","To forget is the same as to throw away."
"Kikuyu","Travelling teaches men their way."
"Kikuyu","To eat much leaves you with a swollen belly."
"Kikuyu","Two guests have no welcome."
"Kikuyu","To come out of one's house means learning."
"Kikuyu","To blame the wind for the rain that does not fall."
"Kikuyu","To be slim does not mean having been pared."
"Kikuyu","To be praised is to be ruined."
"Kikuyu","To be laughed at is not to be pitied."
"Kikuyu","To be laughed at by men is not to be wept by hyenas."
"Kikuyu","Thieves conceal themselves in the night not in the day."
"Kikuyu","There is nothing without a cause."
"Kikuyu","There is not the son of the front and the son of the back."
"Kikuyu","There is no tree which a panting animal would not cling to."
"Kikuyu","There is no thing which does not cause another to exist."
"Kikuyu","The sleeping dog is turned by a stick."
"Kikuyu","When an elephant combats, it is the grass that suffers."
"Kikuyu","There is no pleasure that does not cause one's cheeks to tremble."
"Kikuyu","There is no rain which does not enrich someone."
"Kikuyu","Young suga-cane gives no beer."
"Kikuyu","You spoke with your own mouth."
"Kikuyu","You cannot make an appointment with death."
"Kikuyu","Women have no upright words, but only crooked ones."
"Kikuyu","Wives and oxen have no friends."
"Kikuyu","Wind makes more noise among the trees."
"Kikuyu","When there is shortage of figs, birds eat the fruits of the 'mugumo'."
"Kikuyu","When the food is cooked there is no need to wait before eating it."
"Kikuyu","Travelling is seeing."
"Kikuyu","When elephants fight, it is the grass that suffers."
"Kikuyu","There is no partridge which does not know its own way of scratching."
"Kikuyu","When 'ithare' is uprooted 'mugumo' grows in its place."
"Kikuyu","What is in Masai is not in Kikuyu."
"Kikuyu","We speak byh proverb: he who is intelligent will understand."
"Kikuyu","Vultures arrive at the place where the goat is slaughtered."
"Kikuyu","Virtue is power."
"Kikuyu","Virtue is better than riches."
"Kikuyu","Two wives are two pots full of poison."
"Kikuyu","Two waterfalls do not hear each other."
"Kikuyu","Two smells of cooking meat break the hyena's legs."
"Kikuyu","Two rich persons do not wish each other a bird of ill omen."
"Kikuyu","Two guests love a different song."
"Kikuyu","When hyenas go away jackals rejoice."
"Kikuyu","He who spends his time adorning himself knows he is going to a dance."
"Kikuyu","Nobody cries that has not been pinched."
"Kikuyu","In the presence of elderly people one must not pour water."
"Kikuyu","In every family where there is a son, the head of an ox, goat or ram is cooked to be eaten by him with his friends."
"Kikuyu","If you help yourself you will be helped."
"Kikuyu","If the first goat goes lame, those that follow will not reach the pasture."
"Kikuyu","If the cap fits wear it."
"Kikuyu","If anybody makes you laugh, it is not always because he loves you."
"Kikuyu","Hyena says that men are wise because they know how to hold a firebrand."
"Kikuyu","Home affairs must not go into the open."
"Kikuyu","Home affairs have their staff, which cannot be brandished by anyone but the head of the house."
"Kikuyu","It is always the potato of another family's boy that extinguishes the fire."
"Kikuyu","Home affairs are not to be carried on in the public squuare."
"Kikuyu","It is bad to get old, for one goes to bed grumbling."
"Kikuyu","He who seeks his goat with the man who ate it, is certain not to find it."
"Kikuyu","He who is stricken knows how to defend himself."
"Kikuyu","He who is full does not understand what is told."
"Kikuyu","He who goes around with his body upright, later on will go crawling."
"Kikuyu","He who does not know, knows after being told."
"Kikuyu","He who does not know the road delays also one that knows it."
"Kikuyu","He who adorns himself knows to what sort of dance he is going."
"Kikuyu","He is a man that looks after maney as 'njuu' looks after locusts."
"Kikuyu","Having rain clouds is not the same as having rain.."
"Kikuyu","Great haste breaks the yam tuber."
"Kikuyu","Home affairs cannot be told to the public."
"Kikuyu","Men are equal whe they are going and walking."
"Kikuyu","Nobody cares about other people's poverty."
"Kikuyu","Nobody can see his own goodness: it can be seen only by others."
"Kikuyu","Nobody calls another's father 'dad'."
"Kikuyu","No war has been fought by men carrying a calabash of 'njohi' but of 'ucuru'."
"Kikuyu","No prepotent man will insult other people for two consecutive seasons."
"Kikuyu","No partridge is small when it claws the soil."
"Kikuyu","No married woman will have her white hair shaved at her mother's."
"Kikuyu","No evil, but only the good will last."
"Kikuyu","No day dawns like another."
"Kikuyu","Necessities never end."
"Kikuyu","Indulgence breeds regret."
"Kikuyu","Men do not know liberality."
"Kikuyu","For a jest one should not take the arrow out of the quiver."
"Kikuyu","Meat has no choice morsel."
"Kikuyu","Me do not know hard firewood, but only lops people put aside hard tasks and devote themselves only to easy ones."
"Kikuyu","Many people together lift up the 'ndiri'."
"Kikuyu","The hunter's son knows how to hunt."
"Kikuyu","Live men do not lack work."
"Kikuyu","The son of the leopard scratches like its mother."
"Kikuyu","It is not the owner, trampling his own field, that spoils it."
"Kikuyu","It is not the mother's will to have a bad offspring."
"Kikuyu","It is he who got milk that is merciful."
"Kikuyu","It is bad to stay at home."
"Kikuyu","Men have got quills."
"Kikuyu","A knife and a shaving-knife are alike."
"Kikuyu","A really good thing is ever good."
"Kikuyu","A plant loses its blossom as soon as it bears fruit."
"Kikuyu","A piece of land is not a little thing."
"Kikuyu","A person will change his mind on something if left to sleep over it."
"Kikuyu","A market can be spoilt by one woman."
"Kikuyu","A man is poor not because he scorns possessions, but because he possesses nothing."
"Kikuyu","A man changing his abode is like a woman marrying."
"Kikuyu","A long lawsuit breeds poverty."
"Kikuyu","A little, contemptible path is sometimes the one that leads you to the highway."
"Kikuyu","A little idleness lost a tilled field."
"Kikuyu","Goats fall that take hold of lichens."
"Kikuyu","A lame of heart is not a lame of leg; he cannot be recognized."
"Kikuyu","A slaughterhouse is not without a little blood."
"Kikuyu","A joke must not hit the belly."
"Kikuyu","A joke can break the earring."
"Kikuyu","A good millstone does not meet a good miller."
"Kikuyu","A good friend is a treasure."
"Kikuyu","A good action reaps another."
"Kikuyu","A fair daughter's father has no ears."
"Kikuyu","A danger escaped is no guarantee for the future."
"Kikuyu","A cunning man likes the company of a fool."
"Kikuyu","A branch of 'mutundu' does not hinder the division of a field."
"Kikuyu","'Kanywanjui' scratches its thigh."
"Kikuyu","A little idleness causes the ruin of the beehive."
"Kikuyu","By staying always in the same place one gets lice."
"Kikuyu","Lying is the thief's stronghold."
"Kikuyu","Fools rejoice for a bad thing."
"Kikuyu","Everybody regrets not what he leaves but what he does not find."
"Kikuyu","Every feast has ists guest of honour."
"Kikuyu","Every case begins from the stomach."
"Kikuyu","Darkness shows no wrong path to she who gets what she wants before dark."
"Kikuyu","Darkness caused to dance even him who cannot."
"Kikuyu","Cutting by the tongue is different from cutting by the knife."
"Kikuyu","Cooked food is not sold for goats."
"Kikuyu","Clear out of the 'thakirio'."
"Kikuyu","A river drowns the one who can swim."
"Kikuyu","Candidates for circumcision."
"Kikuyu","A secret agreement enabled people to kill Watatua."
"Kikuyu","Boys and sugar-cane grow up as enemies."
"Kikuyu","Bought things do not fill the granary."
"Kikuyu","Birds agree when flying down, but do not agree when flying up."
"Kikuyu","Beggars have no worries."
"Kikuyu","Another's mouth cannot take the oath for you."
"Kikuyu","A wily person does not walk on dry leaves."
"Kikuyu","A trick is not an arrow."
"Kikuyu","A stupid turtle-dove is sometimes surprised by night for wanting one more grain of castor-oil plant."
"Kikuyu","A son as cunning as his father knows the arrows like father."
"Kikuyu","A small red snuff-box is a welcome."
"Kikuyu","From a jest comes a strife."
"Kikuyu","Change seeds taking them from different calabashes."
"Kikuyu","The 'gicegu' of many men is not good."
"Kikuyu","Riches and poverty do not leave each other."
"Kikuyu","The buying of a wife begins from a little thing."
"Kikuyu","The breaking of a betrothal is no small matter."
"Kikuyu","The blessed knife eats of the meat of the 'kinandu'."
"Kikuyu","Kamau who is white becomes black."
"Kikuyu","The bird who has always possessed a beak, does not pick up for another."
"Kikuyu","Nobody entering a hut pays for the heart he will enjoy in it."
"Kikuyu","The baby nursed by its grandmother can never be corrected."
"Kikuyu","The antelope detests the one who announces its whereabouts more than the one who sees it."
"Kikuyu","The animal rambling in the stable makes the sleeping ones rise too."
"Kikuyu","The cimex lives in the firewood and still it reaches its full growth."
"Kikuyu","The abyss laughs at the plain."
"Kikuyu","The cooking pot on the fire leaks, when pouring water it is broken."
"Kikuyu","That of circumcision is a hard appointment."
"Kikuyu","Ten helpless people were surpassed by a single strong person."
"Kikuyu","Talking something over is better than leaving it pending."
"Kikuyu","Take an oath only for the hand youslept on."
"Kikuyu","Strength has nothing."
"Kikuyu","Strength does not correspond with courage."
"Kikuyu","Stolen things bring in misfortune."
"Kikuyu","Some hope for rain even though they have not prepared their fields."
"Kikuyu","She who ignores advice does not resist when being prepared for burial."
"Kikuyu","Riches are found in cultivating together."
"Kikuyu","The animal caught in the trap does not refuse to set itself free."
"Kikuyu","The fed baby plays on its mother's bed."
"Kikuyu","The hump of the ox that has grown old must be eaten by women."
"Kikuyu","The grove of the hear is not laid open."
"Kikuyu","The good milking cow is praised after her death."
"Kikuyu","The goats pasture with bells hanging from their necks in order not to stray."
"Kikuyu","The goat slaughtered for a man who is sick now, finds another who ws sick long before."
"Kikuyu","The forest of an unpleasant person is the one that has trees."
"Kikuyu","The foot and the earth cannot help meeting."
"Kikuyu","The fool takes many people with him."
"Kikuyu","The food that is in the mouth is not yet in the belly."
"Kikuyu","The food found Wacu in the field."
"Kikuyu","The chest contains a beehive full of pride."
"Kikuyu","The flea troubles him who has got it in his ear."
"Kikuyu","The baby that refuses its mother's breast, will never be full."
"Kikuyu","The fear keeps your house poor."
"Kikuyu","The fact that you have gone near the battle-field does not mean that you fought."
"Kikuyu","The enemy i know is better than the one i do not know."
"Kikuyu","The elders of the council do not jump over a brook."
"Kikuyu","The elders drink afterwards."
"Kikuyu","The dunghill grows by straws thrown upon it."
"Kikuyu","The day is for working, the night is for resting."
"Kikuyu","The cow that drops her calf in the sun feeds it there too."
"Kikuyu","The cow is given a present when her calf is carried away."
"Kikuyu","The cow has a bad delivery though her owner is present."
"Kikuyu","The food eaten first lasts longest in the stomach."
"Kikuyu","Nobody wants to meet an ill-omened bird."
"Kikuyu","People are consumed by evil because of keeping close to it, but not because of keeping away from it."
"Kikuyu","Other's ornaments tire one's neck."
"Kikuyu","One finger does not kill a louse."
"Kikuyu","One favours him from whom one has in the past received a gift."
"Kikuyu","One can lose four and eight."
"Kikuyu","One appointment is eatedn by another."
"Kikuyu","One ages every night one lives."
"Kikuyu","People count the refusals, do not count the gifts."
"Kikuyu","Not to talk is to hate."
"Kikuyu","Nobody walks with another man's gait."
"Kikuyu","Rich people sometimes eat badfood."
"Kikuyu","Nobody throws a lance if he has no target."
"Kikuyu","Nobody knows where he goes, but only whence he comes."
"Kikuyu","Nobody is born wise."
"Kikuyu","Nobody grumbles while carrying a load, but when he has laid it down."
"Kikuyu","Nobody grumbles at being rich, all at being poor."
"Kikuyu","Nobody gathers firewood to roast a thin goat."
"Kikuyu","Old people's walking teaches young ones to walk."
"Kikuyu","Quarrelling is peculiar to the woman who has got male children."
"Kikuyu","People slander somebody even if they do not despise him."
"Kikuyu","Prophet copies a prophet."
"Kikuyu","Resist the beginnings."
"Kikuyu","Rich people cook their food in a potsherd."
"Kikuyu","Nobody returns where he got his finger bitten,."
"Kikuyu","People who have not secret agreement are beaten by a single club."
"Kikuyu","Two smells of cooking meat break the hyena's legs."
"Kikuyu [Kenyan]","Man counts what he has refused, not what he has given."
"Kiowa","Walk lightly in the spring; Mother Earth is pregnant."
"Klingon","When threatened, fight."
"Klingon","When in doubt, surprise them."
"Klingon","When you begin a mission, remember Aktuh and Melota."
"Klingon","When you insult a Klingon's honor, prepare for trouble."
"Klingon","We are Klingons."
"Klingon","Wives serve, brothers inherit."
"Klingon","When in doubt, lie."
"Klingon","Win or lose, there's always Huyperian beetle snuff."
"Klingon","When cold revenge is served, the dish is always very good."
"Klingon","When an escaped prisoner looks for a guard, he always finds one."
"Klingon","When a warrior goes to a battle, he does not abandon his friends."
"Klingon","When a warrior dies, his spirit escapes."
"Klingon","Trust is the biggest liability of all."
"Klingon","To die in the line of duty is the hope of every Klingon."
"Klingon","To die while serving the Empire is the hope of every Klingon."
"Klingon","To find ale, go into a bar."
"Klingon","To really succeed, you must enjoy eating poison."
"Klingon","To survive, we must expand."
"Klingon","To understand life, endure pain."
"Klingon","Today I am a warrior."
"Klingon","We succeed together in a greater whole."
"Klingon","Treat people in your debt like family... exploit them."
"Klingon","We fight to enrich the spirit."
"Klingon","Trust your instincts."
"Klingon","Trust, but locate the doors."
"Klingon","Trust, but verify."
"Klingon","Victory must be earned."
"Klingon","Virtue is the reward."
"Klingon","War is good for business."
"Klingon","You pay attention to your Fek'lhr and I will pay attention to mine."
"Klingon","Today is a good day to die."
"Klingon","A warrior does not let a friend face danger alone."
"Klingon","A leader is judged not by the length of his reign but by the decisions he makes."
"Klingon","Love is always smelled."
"Klingon","A Klingon warrior is always prepared to fight."
"Klingon","A Klingon does not run away from his battles."
"Klingon","A Klingon does not postpone a matter of honor."
"Klingon","A fool's only achievement is death."
"Klingon","A fool and his head are soon parted."
"Klingon","A Ferengi without profit is no Ferengi at all."
"Klingon","A deal is a deal... until a better one comes along."
"Klingon","A contract is a contract is a contract... but only between Ferengi."
"Klingon","A beard is a symbol of courage."
"Klingon","A running man can slit a thousand throats in one night."
"Klingon","A sharp knife is nothing without a sharp eye."
"Klingon","You cannot loosen a man's tongue with root beer."
"Klingon","Act and you shall have dinner. Think and you shall be dinner."
"Klingon","You can't free a fish from water."
"Klingon","You have choosen your weapon, so fight."
"Klingon","A leader must stand alone."
"Klingon","You salute the stars."
"Klingon","Your father is part of you always."
"Klingon","A ship cloaks in order to attack."
"Klingon","Act, and you may eat dinner. Think, and you may be dinner."
"Klingon","A warrior does not complain about physical discomfort."
"Klingon","A wise man can hear profit in the wind."
"Klingon","A wife is a luxury... a smart accountant a necessity."
"Klingon","A wealthy man can afford anything except a conscience."
"Klingon","A warrior's blood boils before the fire is hot."
"Klingon","A warrior fights to the death."
"Klingon","You can't buy fate."
"Klingon","To die defending his ship is the hope of every Klingon."
"Klingon","Keep your ears open."
"Klingon","Klingons do not lie in bed."
"Klingon","In order to succeed, we attack."
"Klingon","In war, there is nothing more honorable than victory."
"Klingon","It is a good day to die."
"Klingon","It never hurts to suck up to the boss."
"Klingon","If you sleep with targs, you'll wake up with glob flies."
"Klingon","Keep holding the hammer."
"Klingon","If you must negotiate, watch your enemy's eyes."
"Klingon","Keep your lies consistent."
"Klingon","Klingons are a proud race, and we intend to go on being proud."
"Klingon","Klingons are born to fight and conquer."
"Klingon","Klingons are born, live as warriors, then die."
"Klingon","Klingons do not faint."
"Klingon","No Klingon ever breaks his word."
"Klingon","It's always good business to know about new customers before they walk in the door."
"Klingon","If the warrior's spirit has not escaped, the battle is still going on."
"Klingon","I am not a merry man."
"Klingon","I must show you my heart."
"Klingon","I travel the river of blood."
"Klingon","If a warrior does not fight, he does not breathe."
"Klingon","If a warrior ignores duty, acts dishonorably, or is disloyal, he is nothing."
"Klingon","If you want to eat pipius claw, you'll have to break a few pipiuses."
"Klingon","If the qIvon is cold, the blood is hot."
"Klingon","Klingons do not procrastinate."
"Klingon","If winning is not important, then why keep score."
"Klingon","If you are afraid to die, you have already died."
"Klingon","If you are sad, act."
"Klingon","If you cannot be shamed, you cannot be honored."
"Klingon","If you cannot fail, you cannot succeed."
"Klingon","If you don't use the painstik, the child will never celebrate his Age of Ascension."
"Klingon","If it's in your way, knock it down."
"Klingon","Never let the competition know what your thinking."
"Klingon","Klingons do not get sick."
"Klingon","Never ask when you can take."
"Klingon","Never begin a negotiation on an empty stomach."
"Klingon","Never cheat a Klingon... unless your sure you can get away with it."
"Klingon","Never confuse wisdom with luck."
"Klingon","Negotiation may cost far less than war, or infinitely more: for war cannot cost more than one's life."
"Klingon","Never leave without your bat'leth."
"Klingon","Navigate your vessel alone."
"Klingon","Never make fun of a Ferengi's mother... insult something he cares about instead."
"Klingon","Never pay more for an acquisition than you have to."
"Klingon","May you die well."
"Klingon","New customers are lik razor-toothed Gree worms, they may be succulent, but sometimes they bite."
"Klingon","Tickle us, do we not laugh? Prick us, do we not bleed? Wrong us, shall we not seek revenge?"
"Klingon","No good deed goes unpunished."
"Klingon","Never have sex with the bosses sister."
"Klingon","May you die before you are captured."
"Klingon","Klingons do not surrender."
"Klingon","Klingons kill for their own purposes."
"Klingon","Klingons never bluff."
"Klingon","Know your enemies... but do business with them always."
"Klingon","Latinum lasts longer than lust."
"Klingon","Never allow family to stand in the way of opportunity."
"Klingon","Listen to the voice of your blood."
"Klingon","Hit them hard and hit them fast."
"Klingon","May your enemies run with fear."
"Klingon","Mercy or power."
"Klingon","Mere life is not a victory, mere death is not a defeat."
"Klingon","More is good... all is better."
"Klingon","Motives are insignificant."
"Klingon","Nature decays, but latinum lasts forever."
"Klingon","Let others keep their reputation. You keep their money."
"Klingon","Deep down everyone's a Ferengi."
"Klingon","Honor is more important than life."
"Klingon","Celebrate. Tomorrow we may die."
"Klingon","Choose to fight, not negotiate."
"Klingon","Conquer what you desire."
"Klingon","Cowards take hostages. Klingons do not."
"Klingon","Capture all opportunities."
"Klingon","Death is an experience best shared."
"Klingon","Buy or die."
"Klingon","Destroying an Empire to win a war is no victory. And ending a battle to save an Empire is no defeat."
"Klingon","Dignity and an empty sack is worth the sack."
"Klingon","Do not kill an animal unless you intened to eat it."
"Klingon","Don't catch any bugs."
"Klingon","Don't just aim; hit the target."
"Klingon","Don't trust a man wearing a better suit than your own."
"Klingon","Curse well."
"Klingon","Anything worth doing is worth doing for money."
"Klingon","Adhere to virtue honorably."
"Klingon","Admire the person with dirt under his fingernails."
"Klingon","Always have sex with the boss."
"Klingon","Always it is the brave ones who die."
"Klingon","Always know what your buying."
"Klingon","Care about your students."
"Klingon","Anger excites."
"Klingon","Don't trust Yridians who bring gifts."
"Klingon","Ask not what your profits can do for you, but what you can do for your profits."
"Klingon","Better to die on our feet than live on our knees."
"Klingon","Beware of the Vulcan greed for knowledge."
"Klingon","Beware the man who doesn't make time for oo-mox."
"Klingon","Blood and water don't mix."
"Klingon","Brute strength is not the most important asset in a fight."
"Klingon","An honorable death requires no vengeance."
"Klingon","Have the courage to admit your mistakes."
"Klingon","Four thousand throats may be cut in one night by a running man."
"Klingon","Free advice is seldom cheap."
"Klingon","Gagh is always best served when live."
"Klingon","Good customers are as rare as latinum - treasure them."
"Klingon","Great deeds, great songs."
"Klingon","Don't trust Ferengi who give back money."
"Klingon","Greed is eternal."
"Klingon","Focus on but one target."
"Klingon","He can sell ice on Rura Penthe."
"Klingon","He doesn't eat gagh."
"Klingon","Hear all, believe nothing."
"Klingon","Hear the warrior cry out."
"Klingon","History is written by the victors."
"Klingon","No enemy is boring."
"Klingon","Great men do not seek power; it thrust upon them."
"Klingon","Every once in a while, declare peace. It confuses the hell out of your enemies."
"Klingon","Home is where the heart is... but the stars are made of latinum."
"Klingon","Drinking fake ale is better then drinking water."
"Klingon","Employees are the rungs on the ladder to success, don't hesitate to step on them."
"Klingon","Enough... is never enough."
"Klingon","Even a blind man can recognize the glow of latinum."
"Klingon","Even in the worst of times someone turns a profit."
"Klingon","For one mission, there is one leader."
"Klingon","Every man has a price."
"Klingon","Fools die young."
"Klingon","Everyone encounters tribbles occasionally."
"Klingon","Everything is for sale, even friendship."
"Klingon","Faith moves mountains... of inventory."
"Klingon","Fear is power."
"Klingon","Females and finances don't mix."
"Klingon","Don't trust those who frequently smile."
"Klingon","Even the best blade will rust and grow dull unless it is cared for."
"Klingon","She can touch your lobes but never your latinum."
"Klingon","The Klingon who kills without showing his face has no honor."
"Klingon","The justification for profit is profit."
"Klingon","The hunter does not lie down with the prey."
"Klingon","The flimsier the product, the higher the price."
"Klingon","The family of a Klingon warrior is responsible for his actions, and he is responsible for theirs."
"Klingon","The execution of but one warrior brings shame to all."
"Klingon","The dishonor of the father dishonors his sons and their sons for three generations."
"Klingon","Survival must be earned."
"Klingon","Sometimes the only thing more dangerous than a question is an answer."
"Klingon","Small print leads to large risk."
"Klingon","The memory of you sings in my blood."
"Klingon","Shooting space garbage is no test of a warriors mettle."
"Klingon","The bigger the smile, the sharper the knife."
"Klingon","Satisfaction is not guaranteed."
"Klingon","Revenge is the best revenge."
"Klingon","Revenge is a dish which is best served cold."
"Klingon","Revenge is a dish best served cold."
"Klingon","Remember the scent."
"Klingon","Real power is in the heart."
"Klingon","Profit is it's own reward."
"Klingon","Pleasure is nonessential."
"Klingon","Peace is good for business."
"Klingon","No one survived Khitomer."
"Klingon","Never place friendship above profit."
"Klingon","Sleep can interfere..."
"Klingon","One need not enjoy virtue."
"Klingon","No pain, no gain."
"Klingon","Not even dishonesty can tarnish the shine of profit."
"Klingon","Once you have their money... never give it back."
"Klingon","Stop talking. Drink."
"Klingon","One is always of his tribe."
"Klingon","The riskier the road, the greater the profit."
"Klingon","Only a fool fights in a burning house."
"Klingon","Only an enemy without honor refuses to show himself in battle."
"Klingon","Only fools don't attack."
"Klingon","Only fools have no fear."
"Klingon","Only fools pay retail."
"Klingon","Opportunity plus instinct equals profit."
"Klingon","Pay no heed to glob flies."
"Klingon","The wind does not respect a fool."
"Klingon","The used kut'luch is always shiny."
"Klingon","One does not acheive honor."
"Klingon","There's nothing wrong with charity... as long as it winds up in your pocket."
"Klingon","The son of a Klingon is a man the day he can first hold a blade."
"Klingon","The victor is always right."
"Klingon","There are no old warriors."
"Klingon","There is always a chance."
"Klingon","There is no honor in attacking the weak."
"Klingon","There is no honor in poverty."
"Klingon","There is no substitute for success."
"Klingon","There is nothing shameful in falling before a superior enemy."
"Klingon","There's nothing more dangerous than an honest business man."
"Klingon","A running man can slit a thousand throats in one night."
"Klingon","Act and you shall have dinner. Think and you shall be dinner."
"Kongo","Justice becomes injustice when it makes two wounds on a head which only deserves one."
"Korean","Where there are no tigers, a wildcat is very self-important."
"Korean","A great river does not refuse any small streams."
"Korean","Better in the grave than be a slave."
"Korean","A sheet of paper is lighter if two of you don't try to carry it."
"Korean","Anyone who goes hungry for three days will be inclined to steal."
"Korean","Butterflies come to pretty flowers."
"Korean","Aim high in your career but stay humble in your heart."
"Korean","A turtle can only get on it by sticking its neck out."
"Korean","A stranger nearby is better than a far-away relative."
"Korean","A poor old horse will have a worn out tail."
"Korean","A physician's neighbor is never a doctor."
"Korean","A nobleman's calf does not know how a butcher kills."
"Korean","A newborn baby has no fear of tigers."
"Korean","A man's youth will never die, unless he kills himself."
"Korean","A hunter's knife cannot carve its own handle."
"Korean","A fish wouldn't get into trouble if it kept its mouth shut."
"Korean","A day-old pigeon cannot fly over a mountain pass."
"Korean","Even a fish wouldn't get into trouble if it kept its mouth shut."
"Korean","Carve the peg by looking at the hole."
"Korean","A kitchen knife cannot carve its own handle."
"Korean","Three years will eradicate even murderous thoughts."
"Korean","Tap even a stone bridge before crossing."
"Korean","The bad calligrapher is choosy about his brushes."
"Korean","Carve the peg only after studying the hole."
"Korean","The bull that is used to the sun shivers by the light of the moon."
"Korean","Cross even a stone bridge after you've tested it."
"Korean","The frog forgets that he was once a tadpole."
"Korean","The matchmaker gets three cups of wine when he succeeds and three slaps on the cheek when he fails."
"Korean","The nicest woman is your own; the nicest harvest is your neighbors."
"Korean","The person who has many faults is usually the first to criticize others. Put something off for one day, and ten days will pass."
"Korean","The person who knows himself and his opponent will be invincible. Carve a peg only after you have observed the hole."
"Korean","The thief hates the moon."
"Korean","Tall branches are apt to be broken."
"Korean","There is no winter without snow, no spring without sunshine, and no happiness without companions."
"Korean","The bad plowman quarrels with his ox."
"Korean","To be prepared is to have no anxiety."
"Korean","To begin is to be half done."
"Korean","Useful trees are cut down first."
"Korean","Virginity can be lost in one night."
"Korean","When you have three daughters, you sleep with the door open."
"Korean","Where there are no tigers, a wild cat is very self-important."
"Korean","Wise men philosophize as the fools live on."
"Korean","Woman was born three days earlier than the devil."
"Korean","Words have no wings but they can fly many thousands of miles."
"Korean","You cannot strike a face that is smiling."
"Korean","You will hate a beautiful song if you sing it often."
"Korean","There is no flower that lasts ten days and no might lasts ten years."
"Korean","Even the best song becomes tiresome if heard too often."
"Korean","Cast no dirt into the well that gives you water."
"Korean","Cast not pearls to swine."
"Korean","Catch not at the shadow, and lose the substance."
"Korean","Do not draw your sword to kill a fly."
"Korean","Even a monk can't shave his own head."
"Korean","Even a sheet of paper is lighter when two people lift it."
"Korean","Even children of the same mother look different."
"Korean","Even honey can taste bitter if it's used as medicine."
"Korean","The deeper the waters are, the more still they run."
"Korean","Even if the sky falls on you, there is a hole that you can escape from."
"Korean","Remember, even monkeys fall out of trees."
"Korean","Even though words have no wings, they can still fly a thousand miles. Even if you encounter a stone bridge, tap it first before crossing. Through old things, we learn new things."
"Korean","Give an extra piece of cake to a stepchild."
"Korean","Man's mind changes throughout the course of a day."
"Korean","Put off for one day and ten days will pass by."
"Korean","Power lasts ten years; influence not more than a hundred."
"Korean","No sleep, no dream."
"Korean","If a pedestrian sees a horse he will want to ride it."
"Korean","Man's extremity, God's opportunity."
"Korean","Man's affairs are evaluated only after his coffin is closed."
"Korean","It is a bad plowman that quarrels with his ox."
"Korean","If you want a well, only dig in one place."
"Korean","If you starve for three days, there is no thought that does not invade your imagination."
"Korean","If you kick a stone in anger, you'll hurt your own foot."
"Korean","If there is a rich man in the area three villages are ruined."
"Korean","One moment is worth more than a thousand gold pieces."
"Korean","Even a fish wouldn't get into trouble if it kept its mouth shut."
"Korean","The deeper the waters are, the more still they run."
"Korean","The bad plowman quarrels with his ox."
"Korean","Put off for one day and ten days will pass."
"Korean","Man's extremity, God's opportunity."
"Korean","Man's affairs are evaluated only after his coffin is closed."
"Korean","A kitchen knife cannot carve its own handle."
"Korean","Even children of the same mother look different."
"Korean","Cross even a stone bridge after you've tested it."
"Korean","Catch not at the shadow, and lose the substance."
"Korean","Cast not pearls to swine."
"Korean","Cast no dirt into the well that gives you water."
"Korean","Carve the peg by looking at the hole."
"Korean","A nobleman's calf does not know how a butcher kills."
"Korean","If there is a rich man in the area three villages are ruined."
"Korean","You will hate a beautiful song if you sing it often."
"Korean","Where there are no tigers, a wildcat is very self-important."
"Korean","Words have no wings but they can fly a thousand miles."
"Kossi","If the rhythm of the drum beat changes, the dance step must adapt."
"Kpelle","As a crab walks, so walk its children."
"Kurdish","Do not throw the arrow which will return against you."
"Kurdish","With fortune on your side you can sow salt and harvest grass."
"Kurdish","Whoever is fond of cream should should take the cow around with him."
"Kurdish","Your son can be a prince, your daughter will be a mother."
"Kurdish","Work as if you were to live forever; live as if you were to die tomorrow."
"Kurdish","Wood can only be split with a wedge that is cut from its own tree."
"Kurdish","With patience, mulberry leaves become satin."
"Kurdish","If God didn't like beautiful women, he wouldn't have made them."
"Kurdish","Fear an ignorant man more than a lion."
"Kurdish","It is better to be naked in your place than to be a pasha with strangers."
"Kurdish","It is better to be a male for one day than a female for ten."
"Kurdish","In a flat country a hillock thinks itself a mountain."
"Kurdish","In a fire, both green and dry wood burn."
"Kurdish","Ignorance is sweet for the soul."
"Kurdish","If you wish to do a good deed, consult no one."
"Kurdish","If you talk to the blacksmith you'll get hit by sparks."
"Kurdish","If you give him cloth, he'll ask for the lining."
"Kurdish","If you cannot build a town, build a heart."
"Kurdish","If you are not a flower, don't be a thorn."
"Kurdish","It is easy to catch a serpent with someone else's hand."
"Kurdish","If skill could be gained by watching, every dog would become a butcher."
"Kurdish","It is easy to say ""Come"" difficult to say ""Go""."
"Kurdish","If God closes one door, He opens a thousand others."
"Kurdish","He who wants pearls has to dive into the sea."
"Kurdish","He who loves a woman is a nephew of the sun."
"Kurdish","Habit is worse than rabies."
"Kurdish","Habit becomes second nature."
"Kurdish","Guests bring good luck with them."
"Kurdish","God has created us brothers but has given us separate purses."
"Kurdish","God finds a low branch for the bird that cannot fly."
"Kurdish","God created women and women created the hearth."
"Kurdish","Freedom is never given but taken."
"Kurdish","Patience is bitter, but it bears sweet fruit."
"Kurdish","If you are an anvil, be patient; if you are a hammer, be strong."
"Kurdish","Nobody knows who is he, even if he is under his father's ears."
"Kurdish","Parting is such sweet sorrow."
"Kurdish","Part with your head, but not with your secret."
"Kurdish","Open your eyes, not your mouth."
"Kurdish","Only by falling do you learn how to mount a horse."
"Kurdish","One sturdy house is worth a hundred in ruins."
"Kurdish","One is equally indebted to one's teacher and to God."
"Kurdish","One gives twice who gives quickly."
"Kurdish","One can never repay one's debt to one's mother."
"Kurdish","One beats one's breast who does not beat one's child."
"Kurdish","Once a friend, always a friend."
"Kurdish","Of evil grain no good seed can come."
"Kurdish","It is easier to make a camel jump a ditch than to make a fool listen to reason."
"Kurdish","Not every cloud brings rain."
"Kurdish","Expect the worst from your enemy so that you won't be disappointed."
"Kurdish","No one says, ""My pasture is not sweet."""
"Kurdish","No means, no market."
"Kurdish","No matter where you go, your destiny follows you."
"Kurdish","Many women, many words."
"Kurdish","Many will show you the way once your cart has overturned."
"Kurdish","Loneliness is a nest for the thoughts."
"Kurdish","Listen a hundred times; ponder a thousand times; speak once."
"Kurdish","Kurds have no friends."
"Kurdish","Kind words will unlock an iron door."
"Kurdish","It is up to the people to feed the dogs; it's up to the Cardias to feed the Turks."
"Kurdish","It is more difficult to contend with oneself than with the world."
"Kurdish","Of everything else the newest; of friends, the oldest."
"Kurdish","A kind word warms a man through three winters."
"Kurdish","Fighting is better than idleness."
"Kurdish","A visitor comes with ten blessings, eats one, and leaves nine."
"Kurdish","A tribulation is better than a hundred warnings."
"Kurdish","A threat does not lengthen your sword."
"Kurdish","A thousand friends are too few; one enemy is one too many."
"Kurdish","A thief not caught becomes a king."
"Kurdish","A small key opens big doors."
"Kurdish","A shy woman is worth a city, a shy man is worth a goat."
"Kurdish","A red apple invites stones."
"Kurdish","A neighbor's hen looks as big as a goose, and his wife as young as a girl."
"Kurdish","A man is judged by his work."
"Kurdish","A wise man remembers his friends at all times; a fool, only when he has need of them."
"Kurdish","A knife-wound heals, but a tongue-wound festers."
"Kurdish","A woman is a fortress, a man her prisoner."
"Kurdish","A hungry stomach has no ears."
"Kurdish","A hundred men can sit together quietly but when two dogs get together there will be a fight."
"Kurdish","A home without guests, a village without shepherds, both are hopeless indeed."
"Kurdish","A heart in love with beauty never grows old."
"Kurdish","A good companion shortens the longest road."
"Kurdish","A girl without a mother is like a mountain with no paths; a girl without a father is like a mountain with no streams."
"Kurdish","A fool dreams of wealth, a wise man, of happiness."
"Kurdish","A cup of coffee commits one to forty years of friendship."
"Kurdish","A camel is not a animal and an Arab is not a human being."
"Kurdish","Wish well, be well."
"Kurdish","With a mule you have a son, with a son-in-law you only have a mule."
"Kurdish","A man is as wise as his head, not his years."
"Kurdish","Better one day a man than ten days a woman."
"Kurdish","Everything is pardoned the brave.."
"Kurdish","Every sheep is hung by his own leg."
"Kurdish","Every ""bad"" has its ""worse""."
"Kurdish","Even the highest tree has an axe waiting at its foot."
"Kurdish","Empty words will not fill an empty stomach."
"Kurdish","Eat and drink with your friends but do not trade with them."
"Kurdish","Dogs bark, but the caravan goes on."
"Kurdish","Do what your teacher says but not what he does."
"Kurdish","Do not throw the arrow which will return against you."
"Kurdish","Do not roll up your trousers before reaching the stream."
"Kurdish","Do not eat the strangers' bread as this diminishes your stature."
"Kurdish","A wise man does his own work."
"Kurdish","Both the hunted and the hunter rely on God."
"Kurdish","Give nine, save ten."
"Kurdish","Better a wise foe than a foolish friend."
"Kurdish","Better a calf of one's own than a jointly owned cow."
"Kurdish","Beauty passes; wisdom remains."
"Kurdish","Bad habits are worse than rabies."
"Kurdish","At table keep short hand; in company keep a short tongue."
"Kurdish","Any man with two wives becomes a porter."
"Kurdish","An open door invites callers."
"Kurdish","An illness comes by the pound and goes away by the ounce."
"Kurdish","After dinner a Kuru kills a man or kidnaps a woman."
"Kurdish","Activity breeds prosperity."
"Kurdish","Ability has no school."
"Kurdish","Deal with your friends as if they will become your enemies tomorrow, and deal with your enemies as if they will become your friends tomorrow."
"Kurdish","What the heart thinks, the mouth speaks."
"Kurdish","Those away from the battlefield boast about their swords."
"Kurdish","Search yourself, and you will find Allah."
"Kurdish","Those who know do not talk; those who talk do not know."
"Kurdish","Time is like a dagger; if you don't cut with it, it cuts you. Go ahead and cut. Be quick before it cuts you."
"Kurdish","To find your place in life is easier than to occupy it."
"Kurdish","To have a hut built from mud here is better than a palace made from gold and marble on the Arabian Gulf."
"Kurdish","To speak is to sow; to listen is to reap."
"Kurdish","When the money starts to glitter and clink, even a Mullah will leave the mosque."
"Kurdish","What matters is the menu on the table now."
"Kurdish","Thorns and roses grow on the same tree."
"Kurdish","What you give away you keep."
"Kurdish","When a bald man dies the mourners give him curly hair as a present."
"Kurdish","When a cat wants to eat her kittens, she says they look like mice."
"Kurdish","When it is spring time, the grass will even grow under a big stone."
"Kurdish","When Madame drops her cup of tea it makes no noise."
"Kurdish","Whoever digs a pit for his neighbor should dig it his own size."
"Kurdish","Whoever speaks evil to you of others will speak evil of you to others."
"Kurdish","For every wise man there is one still wiser."
"Kurdish","What is loaned goes away smiling but returns weeping."
"Kurdish","The devil will not bother you in a house full of children."
"Kurdish","See with your mind, hear with your heart."
"Kurdish","See with your mind; hear with your heart."
"Kurdish","Some will enjoy the honey, others will have to put up with the sting."
"Kurdish","Stairs are climbed step by step."
"Kurdish","Stretch your feet according to your blanket."
"Kurdish","Study from new books, but from old teachers."
"Kurdish","Those who do not go to war roar like lions."
"Kurdish","The devil tempts all, but the idle man tempts the devil."
"Kurdish","The wolf repents only in death."
"Kurdish","The enemy of a father will never be friends of his son."
"Kurdish","The foreign person is blind and the killed person has no chance."
"Kurdish","The fox did not reach the grape, said it's unripe."
"Kurdish","The Kurds have no friends."
"Kurdish","The male is born to be slaughtered."
"Kurdish","The man is a river, the woman a lake."
"Kurdish","The miser and the open-handed spend the same in long run."
"Kurdish","The only friends we have are the mountains."
"Kurdish","The rich man's wealth tires the poor man's jaw."
"Kurdish","The devil takes a hand in what is done in haste."
"Kurdish","See with your mind, hear with your heart."
"Kurdish","No matter where you go, your destiny follows you."
"Kurdish","Of everything else the newest; of friends, the oldest."
"Kurdish","Of evil grain no good seed can come."
"Kurdish","Once a friend, always a friend."
"Kurdish","One beats one's breast who does not beat one's child."
"Kurdish","Parting is such sweet sorrow."
"Kurdish","Many women, many words."
"Kurdish","Stairs are climbed step by step."
"Kurdish","The devil takes a hand in what is done in haste."
"Kurdish","The devil tempts all, but the idle man tempts the devil."
"Kurdish","What you give away you keep."
"Kurdish","When a cat wants to eat her kittens, she says they look like mice."
"Kurdish","Part with your head, but not with your secret."
"Kurdish","Guests bring good luck with them."
"Kurdish","A visitor comes with ten blessings, eats one, and leaves nine."
"Kurdish","Do not throw the arrow which will return against you."
"Kurdish","Fear an ignorant man more than a lion."
"Kurdish","No means, no market."
"Kurdish","Give nine, save ten."
"Kurdish","Many will show you the way once your cart has overturned."
"Kurdish","Habit becomes second nature."
"Kurdish","Habit is worse than rabies."
"Kurdish","In a flat country a hillock thinks itself a mountain."
"Kurdish","It is easier to make a camel jump a ditch than to make a fool listen to reason."
"Kurdish","Kind words will unlock an iron door."
"Kurdish","Listen a hundred times; ponder a thousand times; speak once."
"Kurdish","For every wise man there is one still wiser."
"Lakota","When man moves away from nature his heart becomes hard."
"Lakota","The ones that matter most are the children. they are the true human beings."
"Lakota","The great spirit is not perfect: it has a good side and a bad side. sometimes the bad side gives us more knowledge than the good side."
"Lakota","A man or woman with many children has many homes."
"Lakota","Mi taku oyasin."
"Lamba","Mr. Not-present was the brave man."
"Lamba","Even if you are cunning, you will not tie water up in a bale of grass."
"Lamba","Even if your bee-hive has no honey in it, you shouldn't break it up."
"Lamba","He was entrapped by the evening, it has cost him his marriage."
"Lamba","Hunger has no friend."
"Lamba","It is the grass that knows where the snake goes."
"Lamba","Mother carry me, and I tomorrow will carry you."
"Lamba","Days are many, what is one is life."
"Lamba","One mouth doesn't taste the beer."
"Lamba","Respect a little child, and let it respect you."
"Lamba","The insolence of shortness is to stretch itself big."
"Lamba","The judge also dies."
"Lamba","The owner of the skin is the one to tan it."
"Lamba","Just one by one white hairs have come, and thus have they grown."
"Lamba","Days cannot be tied in a bundle."
"Lamba","The tortoise stores its wisdom in his shell."
"Lamba","Dance, father, people's eyes don't eat, they just stare."
"Lamba","Cut of the sick part while it is still small."
"Lamba","Cunning comes to an end, what remains is folly."
"Lamba","Chieftanship is not infectious."
"Lamba","Adjoining houses always burn."
"Lamba","A stick one bends while it is still green."
"Lamba","A redeemer of people is a walker with people."
"Lamba","A kingdom's strength is in mutual honor."
"Lamba","A child one does not instruct on return, one instructs him when going."
"Lamba","A case is not to be decided from one mouth."
"Lamba","A bone does not bring itself, it is people that bring it."
"Lamba","People get to know one another when traveling."
"Lamba","Even if we eat, earth will eventually enter our mouth."
"Lamba","Young man, countries practice witchcraft on one another."
"Lamba","Your friend, one doesn't stare at his forehead, one stares at his stomach."
"Lamba","Words in conversation are like beans, one breaks them off where they are ripe."
"Lamba","Where there is a friend, one does not have to call, he will come of his own accord."
"Lamba","When there is on a red-hot hoe, it is not grasped."
"Lamba","What one won't eat by itself, one will eat when mixed with other food."
"Lamba","There is no return, worse luck; for could I return, I would foresee what has come into the country."
"Lamba","One doesn't follow a wild beast into its lair."
"Lamba","What makes the drum pleasing is the song."
"Lamba","What is not bitter is good to eat."
"Lamba","We celebrated at the wax door, and all the time the honeycomb was empty within."
"Lamba","They are happy, the free men that have their fathers."
"Lamba","What nature gives us is not refused."
"Lancastrian","Rain before seven, fine before eleven."
"Lancastrian","Rags to riches to rags."
"Lancastrian","Rain before seven, fine before eleven."
"Lancastrian","Rags to riches to rags."
"Lango","Who does not love to dance, does not love to sing."
"Lao","Learning means loving the country."
"Lao","When the water rises, the fish eat the ants; when the water falls, the ants eat the fish."
"Lao","You know, you teach. You do not know, you learn."
"Lao","Although he who walks behind an elephant may feel very secure, he is likely to get splattered with elephant dung."
"Laotian","Live with vultures, and become a vulture; live with crows, and become a crow."
"Laotian","Listen with one ear; be suspicious with the other."
"Laotian","When you've heard it you must see it; when you've seen it make a judgement with your heart."
"Laotian","The voice of a poor man does not carry very far."
"Laotian","One piece of wood will not make a fire."
"Laotian","Live with vultures, become a vulture; live with crows, become a crow."
"Laotian","If you like to have things easy, you'll have difficulties; if you like problems, you will succeed."
"Laotian","If you must be a servant, serve the rich; if you must be a dog, let it be a temple dog."
"Laotian","If you like things easy, you'll have difficulties; if you like problems, you'll succeed."
"Laotian","Happiness flies away from those who want it most."
"Laotian","If you like things easy, you'll have difficulties; if you like problems, you'll succeed."
"Laotian","Live with vultures, become a vulture; live with crows, become a crow."
"Lash","Give cheerfully with one hand and you will gather well with two."
"Latin","Beware of a man of one book."
"Latin","Vulnerant omnia, ultima necat. (All the [hours] wound you, the last one kills)"
"Latin","Fear not a jest. If one throws salt at you, you will not be harmed unless you have sore places."
"Latin","A woman either loves or hates, there is no third course."
"Latin","God will be present, whether asked or not."
"Latin","He dies twice who perishes by his own hand."
"Latin","Sickness shows us what we are."
"Latin","If there is no wind, row."
"Latin","Love is a kind of military service."
"Latin","Revenge is a confession of pain."
"Latin","He who has great strength should use it lightly."
"Latin","Money, like a queen, gives rank and beauty."
"Latin","Poverty is death in another form."
"Latin","A man is not where he lives, but where he loves."
"Latin","It is the part of a good shepherd to shear his flock, not to skin it."
"Latin","Live your own life, for you will die your own death."
"Latin","One man's meat is another man's poison."
"Latin","One man excels in one thing, another in another."
"Latin","One man is no man."
"Latin","One man must not fight with two."
"Latin","One man restored our fortunes by delay."
"Latin","One man uses his tongue, another his teeth."
"Latin","One loyal friend is worth ten thousand relatives."
"Latin","One man's loss is another man's gain."
"Latin","One house cannot keep two dogs."
"Latin","One poison is cured by another."
"Latin","Pedigree and ancestry and what we ourselves have not achieved, I scarcely recognize as our own."
"Latin","One that promised better things."
"Latin","Peace gains a value from discord."
"Latin","One man yawning makes another yawn too."
"Latin","Once a handmaid never a lady."
"Latin","One bird in the hand is worth four in the air."
"Latin","Once a priest, always a priest."
"Latin","One hour to-day is worth two to-morrow."
"Latin","One has woven the thread, another has drawn it forth."
"Latin","Once in each man's life fortune smiles."
"Latin","One hand washes the other."
"Latin","One against whom accusations when made are easily believed."
"Latin","One fool makes many."
"Latin","One butcher fears not many sheep."
"Latin","One tree won't hold two robins."
"Latin","Our outward actions reveal our hidden intentions."
"Latin","One beast easily recognizes another."
"Latin","One lawsuit begets another."
"Latin","Our last garment is made without pockets."
"Latin","No one is a fool always, every one sometimes."
"Latin","Once a buffoon, never a good father of a family."
"Latin","Overdoing is doing nothing to the purpose."
"Latin","Pain mingles with pleasure."
"Latin","Pain of mind is worse than pain of body."
"Latin","Pain past is pleasure."
"Latin","Over no home can the sign be hung: There is no trouble here."
"Latin","No man is his craft's master the first day."
"Latin","Outward appearances assuming the form of virtues."
"Latin","Out of nothing nothing comes."
"Latin","Our pillow should be our counsellor."
"Latin","Our native land attracts us with some mysterious charm, never to be forgotten."
"Latin","Our neighbour's crop is always more fruitful and his cattle produce more milk than our own."
"Latin","One who can do you a deal of good or a deal of harm."
"Latin","Our hearts run riot in prosperity."
"Latin","Our fears always outnumber our dangers."
"Latin","Oppression causeth rebellion."
"Latin","Opposites attract."
"Latin","Oppose not a hungry man."
"Latin","Opportunity only knocks once."
"Latin","Opportunity never knocks twice at any man's door."
"Latin","Opportunity makes the thief."
"Latin","No man is impatient with his creditors."
"Latin","Opportunity has hair in front, behind she is bald; if you seize her by the forelock, you may hold her, but, if suffered to escape, not Jupiter himself can catch her again."
"Latin","Patience overtaxed turns to rage."
"Latin","One who would quarrel about goats' wool."
"Latin","Our own house surpasses every other."
"Latin","No thanks attach to a kindness long deferred."
"Latin","Nothing is grievous which necessity enjoins."
"Latin","Nothing dries up more quickly than a tear."
"Latin","Nothing dries sooner than tears."
"Latin","Nothing comes of nothing."
"Latin","Nothing can exist long without occasional rest."
"Latin","Nothing can be said which has not been said already."
"Latin","Nothing bears a stronger resemblance to a madman than a man when drunk."
"Latin","Nothing answers worse than too high farming."
"Latin","Not words but knocks."
"Latin","Not to disturb that which is at rest."
"Latin","Not to advance is to recede."
"Latin","Not even a drop is left."
"Latin","No peacock envies another peacock his tail."
"Latin","Nobility of conduct is a greater recommendation than nobility of birth."
"Latin","Nothing prevails against wealth."
"Latin","No sooner said than done."
"Latin","No protection is so sure as that of innocence."
"Latin","No one loves another better than himself."
"Latin","No one in a shabby coat is treated with respect."
"Latin","No one ever suddenly reached the height of vice."
"Latin","Perhaps you will soon find another, and a fairer, lover."
"Latin","Silence is wisdom and gets a man friends."
"Latin","No matter her past, when a chambermaid marries a lord she becomes a lady."
"Latin","No man will feed on herbs when meat is to be had."
"Latin","No man is so rich as to say, ""I have enough!"""
"Latin","No man ought to be twice tried for the same offence."
"Latin","No man should be a witness in his own cause."
"Latin","Nobility without wealth is more worthless than the seaweed which the tide has left."
"Latin","Obey orders, if you break owners."
"Latin","Old foxes want no tutors."
"Latin","Old age is venerable."
"Latin","Old age is in itself a disease."
"Latin","Oil and truth will get uppermost at last."
"Latin","Often there is eloquence in a silent look."
"Latin","Often a silent face has voice and words."
"Latin","Office tests the man."
"Latin","Offer not the right hand of friendship to every one."
"Latin","Of two evils the least is always to be chosen."
"Latin","Of no worldly good can the joy be perfect, unless it is shared by a friend."
"Latin","Of no sort of good to himself, or to anybody else."
"Latin","Occupy yourself, and you will be out of harm's way."
"Latin","Nothing is more foolish than to dabble in too many things."
"Latin","Observe decorum even in your sport."
"Latin","Nothing is more humiliating than when a reproach recoils on the head or him who utters it."
"Latin","Obedience is the mother of happiness."
"Latin","O ancient house, by what a different master are you presided over."
"Latin","Now my resources are reduced to a narrow compass."
"Latin","Now it rains, and again the sun shines forth brightly in the heavens."
"Latin","Now I have got a ewe and a lamb, Every one cries, ""Welcome, Peter."""
"Latin","Now a layman, to-morrow a clerk."
"Latin","Novelty in all things is charming."
"Latin","Novelty always appears handsome."
"Latin","Nourish the whelps of a wolf."
"Latin","Nourish not a lion's whelp."
"Latin","Nothing, however small, is to be irritated."
"Latin","Nothing reaches the intellect before making its appearance in the senses."
"Latin","Old men's children are rarely of good constitution."
"Latin","Obstinately to justify a fault is a second fault."
"Latin","Reward not a sleeping pilot."
"Latin","Silence is the greatest ornament in a woman."
"Latin","Seek not the rose which is once lost."
"Latin","Seek not the luxuries of life lest you reap sorrow."
"Latin","Seek a wife in your own sphere."
"Latin","See that in avoiding cinders you step not on burning coals."
"Latin","Science is unlimited in its course; life is short."
"Latin","Scarce things are prized."
"Latin","Satires run faster than panegyrics."
"Latin","Satiety has killed more men than hunger."
"Latin","Safely housed to listen to the storm outside."
"Latin","Rumour grows easily enough, but is not easily silenced."
"Latin","Riches too increase, and the maddening craving for gold, So that men ever seek for more, that they may have the most."
"Latin","Self-love is a mote in every man's eye."
"Latin","Rich for yourself, poor for your friends."
"Latin","Self-praise is no recommendation."
"Latin","Revolutions are not made with rose water."
"Latin","Revere your parents."
"Latin","Revenge is a dish that can be eaten cold."
"Latin","Revenge is a confession of pain."
"Latin","Rest strengthens the body, the mind too is thus supported; but unremitting toil destroys both."
"Latin","Respect is greater from a distance."
"Latin","Repentant tears wash out the stain of guilt."
"Latin","Renown is denied to the living."
"Latin","Religion must be taught, not forced."
"Latin","Relationship produces envy."
"Latin","Rejoice with those that do rejoice."
"Latin","Reason is absent, when impulse rules."
"Latin","Riches fall not always to the lot of the most deserving."
"Latin","Silence is the voice of complicity."
"Latin","Some small spark may yet by chance lie hidden."
"Latin","Soft speeches injure not the mouth of the speaker."
"Latin","So ends all earthly glory."
"Latin","Small things have their own peculiar charm."
"Latin","Small minds are captivated by trifles."
"Latin","Small favours conciliate, but great gifts make enemies."
"Latin","Sleep not in time of peril."
"Latin","Sleep is all important."
"Latin","Skill will enable us to succeed in that which sheer force could not accomplish."
"Latin","Sing not of triumph before the victory."
"Latin","Sing before breakfast, cry before night."
"Latin","Sincerity gives wings to power."
"Latin","Self praise is odious."
"Latin","Let but the hours of idleness cease, and the bow of Cupid will become broken and his torch extinguished."
"Latin","Ready money is ready medicine."
"Latin","No man is faultless."
"Latin","Sickness shows us what we are."
"Latin","Shrouds have no pockets."
"Latin","Showy clothes attract most."
"Latin","Short cuts are long ways round."
"Latin","Shit rolls downhill."
"Latin","Shit floats to the top."
"Latin","Shirk work and you will want bread."
"Latin","She only is chaste, who is chaste where there is no danger of detection: she who does not, because she may not, does."
"Latin","She is not a modest woman whom common report condemns."
"Latin","Seven hours of sleep is enough for the young and the aged."
"Latin","Servants differ as their masters."
"Latin","Silence means consent."
"Latin","Poverty makes a man mean."
"Latin","Preserve the guns, but destroy the gunners."
"Latin","Presents more burdensome than profitable."
"Latin","Presents from an enemy must be received with suspicion."
"Latin","Precepts may lead, but examples draw."
"Latin","Precepts invite, but examples drag us to conclusions."
"Latin","Praise a fair day at night."
"Latin","Practise not your art, and 'twill soon depart."
"Latin","Practice makes perfect."
"Latin","Practice is the best master."
"Latin","Practice is better than theory."
"Latin","Power is strengthened by union."
"Latin","Power acquired by guilt was never used for a good purpose."
"Latin","Rear dogs and wolves' cubs to rend you."
"Latin","Poverty shows us who are our friends and who our enemies."
"Latin","Promises must not fill the place of gifts."
"Latin","Poverty is no disgrace, but it's a great inconvenience."
"Latin","Poverty is death in another form."
"Latin","Potter envies potter, and smith smith."
"Latin","Possessions dwindle: I mourn their loss. But I mourn the loss of time much more, for anyone can save his purse, but none can win back lost time."
"Latin","Possessions dwindle: I mourn their loss. But I mourn the loss of time much more, for anyone can save his purse, but none can win back lost time."
"Latin","Poor though in the midst of wealth."
"Latin","Pondering over many things by night."
"Latin","Ponder long before you act."
"Latin","Pleasure often comes from pain."
"Latin","Pleasure is the bait of evil."
"Latin","Pleasure is often the introduction to pain."
"Latin","Pleasure and pain succeed each other."
"Latin","Poverty trieth friends."
"Latin","Prudence and strength combined."
"Latin","Plague seize the hindmost."
"Latin","Re-open not a wound once healed."
"Latin","Rare is agreement between beauty and modesty."
"Latin","Quietly, if you can; if not, by any means."
"Latin","Quickly come, quickly go."
"Latin","Quick enough, if safe enough."
"Latin","Quarrels enhance the pleasures of love."
"Latin","Pursue that course which offers most advantages, habit will soon make it agreeable and easy."
"Latin","Punishment awaits crime."
"Latin","Punishment awaits all offences."
"Latin","Puffed goods are putrid."
"Latin","Prying with sidelong glance into other people's business."
"Latin","Presumption first blinds a man, and then sets him a running."
"Latin","Prudence availeth more than strength."
"Latin","Pride is innate in beauty, and haughtiness is the companion of the fair."
"Latin","Providential aid at a critical moment."
"Latin","Providence tempers the wind to the shorn lamb."
"Latin","Providence provides but short horns for the fierce ox."
"Latin","Providence our herald, no barrier can oppose us."
"Latin","Providence may delay, but punishment will come at length."
"Latin","Providence is better than a rent."
"Latin","Providence is always on the side of the big battalions."
"Latin","Providence has not entirely deserted us."
"Latin","Providence crushes pride."
"Latin","Providence assists not the idle."
"Latin","Property is robbery."
"Latin","Promises, like pie crust, are made to be broken."
"Latin","Real wealth consists not in having, but in not wanting."
"Latin","Prudence is the charioteer of all virtues."
"Latin","It is the duty of friends mutually to correct each other."
"Latin","It is not allowed in war to blunder twice."
"Latin","It may be said that noisy barrels are easier to carry."
"Latin","It matters little whether we are the slaves of circumstance, or of man."
"Latin","It is well to buy oil as well as salt."
"Latin","It is vain to do that by a multitude which a few can accomplish."
"Latin","It is unlucky to marry in May."
"Latin","It is ungentlemanly to lie; truthfulness becomes the gentleman."
"Latin","It is thou must honour the place, not the place thee."
"Latin","It is the very backbone of wisdom not to trust too hastily."
"Latin","It is the tree that gives its nature to the fruit."
"Latin","It is the season not the soil that brings the crop."
"Latin","It is the perfection of art when no trace of the artist appears."
"Latin","It rolled like water off a duck's back."
"Latin","It is the essence of good taste to do that which is consistent with our position."
"Latin","It would be clear enough even to a blind man."
"Latin","It is the duty of a good sportsman to kill game freely, but not kill all."
"Latin","It is sweet and meritorious to die for one's country."
"Latin","It is soon known which trees will bear fruit."
"Latin","It is sheer folly to expect justice from the unprincipled."
"Latin","It is safer to irritate a dog than an old woman."
"Latin","It is one thing to boast, another to fight."
"Latin","It is often better to go by a circuitous than by a direct path."
"Latin","It is not to be argued that the abuse of a thing proves that it is useless."
"Latin","It is not easy to bear prosperity unruffled."
"Latin","It is not easy suddenly to cast aside a fancy long indulged in."
"Latin","It is not becoming to play the fox, or to play up on both sides."
"Latin","Late hours and love and wine lead not to moderation in anything."
"Latin","It is the part of a good shepherd to shear his flock, not to skin it."
"Latin","Judge of the statue of Hercules by the size of the foot."
"Latin","Let every man have his due."
"Latin","Know you not that kings have long arms?"
"Latin","Kings love the treason, but not the traitor."
"Latin","Kings learn wisdom from associating with wise men."
"Latin","Kings have many ears and many eyes too."
"Latin","Keep your own fish-guts for your own sea-maws."
"Latin","Keep your own fish guts for your own sea maws."
"Latin","Keep your own counsel."
"Latin","Keep your eye upon the goal."
"Latin","Keep the common road, and thou'rt safe."
"Latin","Keep quiet and people will think you a philosopher."
"Latin","Keep adding little by little and you will soon have a big hoard."
"Latin","It rings, it is empty."
"Latin","Jupiter himself cannot please everybody."
"Latin","It is no business of mine; may it go to the devil."
"Latin","Judge of the daughter by the mother."
"Latin","Jove but laughs at lover's perjury."
"Latin","Jouk and let the jaw go by."
"Latin","Joking must have its proper limit."
"Latin","Jokes, which carry injury with them, are never agreeable."
"Latin","Jackdaw always perches by jackdaw."
"Latin","It's an ill wind that blows no one any good."
"Latin","It's an ill plan that cannot be changed."
"Latin","It's all grist to the mill."
"Latin","It's a well-known fact, dirt stinks more when stirred."
"Latin","It would puzzle even Apollo to understand it."
"Latin","It would make a man scratch where it doth not itch, To see a man live poor to die rich."
"Latin","Justice is exercised in the proper prevention, rather than in the severe punishment, of crime."
"Latin","It is a bad bargain, where both are losers."
"Latin","It is not at the altar that we should consider the course we would take."
"Latin","It is an absurdity that he should rule others who cannot command himself."
"Latin","It is all over: I may as well go and hand myself."
"Latin","It is all over: I may as well go and hand myself."
"Latin","It is a wretched position to be dependent on others for support."
"Latin","It is a solace to the miserable to have a companion in their grief."
"Latin","It is a poor dog that's not worth whistling for."
"Latin","It is a no good hen, that cackles in your house and lays in another's."
"Latin","It is a misery to be born, a punishment to live, and a trouble to die."
"Latin","It is a mean thing to despise unsuccessful merit."
"Latin","It is a kingly act to help the fallen."
"Latin","It is a fraud to connive at a fraud."
"Latin","It is an honourable thing to be accused by those who are open to accusation."
"Latin","It is a disgrace to be praised by those who deserve no praise."
"Latin","It is as bad to have too many friends as no friends at all."
"Latin","It is a bad action that success cannot justify."
"Latin","It has caused injury and will do so again."
"Latin","It has become a proverb."
"Latin","It hangs by a hair."
"Latin","It flies gently, but wounds deeply."
"Latin","Men in office must work hard."
"Latin","A woman for a general, and the soldiers will be women."
"Latin","You have hit the nail on the head."
"Latin","Marry a person in your own rank in life."
"Latin","Men are bound by words, bulls' horns by ropes."
"Latin","Two eyes can see more than one."
"Latin","Some sow, others read."
"Latin","It is a foul bird that fills his own nest."
"Latin","It is cruel to refer to those things which cause sorrow."
"Latin","It is no advantage for a man in fever to change his bed."
"Latin","It is never too late to mend."
"Latin","It is never too late to learn."
"Latin","It is never too late to ask what time it is."
"Latin","It is more wicked to love a sin than to commit one."
"Latin","It is more difficult to bridle the tongue than to conquer an army."
"Latin","It is inexcusable to have remained long away, and return empty-handed."
"Latin","It is honourable to be accused by those who deserve to be accused."
"Latin","It is good to be taught even by an enemy."
"Latin","It is easy to set a cask a rolling."
"Latin","It is easier to win good luck than to retain it."
"Latin","It is easier to run from virtue to vice, than from vice to virtue."
"Latin","It is an easy task to improve upon an invention."
"Latin","It is easier to pull down than to build up."
"Latin","Late repentance is rarely sincere."
"Latin","It is but fair that he who requires indulgence for his own offences should grant it to others."
"Latin","It is but a small merit to observe silence, but it is a grave fault to speak of matters on which we should be silent."
"Latin","It is better to turn back than to persevere in an evil course."
"Latin","It is better to say nothing than not enough."
"Latin","It is better to satisfy our hunger than to be clothed in purple."
"Latin","It is better to give than to receive."
"Latin","It is better to fly than to remain in disgrace."
"Latin","It is better to enjoy what we possess than to hanker after other things."
"Latin","It is better to be born lucky than rich."
"Latin","It is better to be always prepared than to suffer once."
"Latin","It is best to learn wisdom by the experience of others."
"Latin","It is bad to contend about trifles."
"Latin","It is easier to raise the Devil than to lay him."
"Latin","Make too much haste and pay the penalty."
"Latin","Love is like a shuttlecock."
"Latin","Many fall by the sword, but more from gluttony."
"Latin","Many can drive oxen, few can plough."
"Latin","Many can drive an ox; few can plough."
"Latin","Many asses have only two legs."
"Latin","Many annoyances surround an aged man."
"Latin","Many an injury comes from a fool's speech."
"Latin","Man's life's a vapor, and full of woes; he cuts a caper, and down he goes."
"Latin","Man's life is a sojourn in a strange land."
"Latin","Man is to man a wolf, man is to man a demon."
"Latin","Man is himself the author of every sorrow he endures."
"Latin","Man is a wolf to man."
"Latin","Many meet the gods, but few salute them."
"Latin","Make your experiment on a worthless subject."
"Latin","Many promises impair confidence."
"Latin","Make hay when the sun shines."
"Latin","Make haste slowly."
"Latin","Make good use of your time, it flies fast."
"Latin","Make every bargain clear and plain, that none may afterwards complain."
"Latin","Make a virtue of necessity."
"Latin","Mad drunkenness discloses every secret."
"Latin","Mad desire, when it has the most, longs for more."
"Latin","Lust of power is the strongest of all passions."
"Latin","Lovers are madmen."
"Latin","Love would soon perish, unless nourished by Ceres and Bacchus."
"Latin","Love steals on us imperceptibly."
"Latin","Labour conquers all things."
"Latin","Man and woman, fire and chaff."
"Latin","No gain satisfies a greedy mind."
"Latin","No man has a worse friend than he brings with him from home."
"Latin","No man grieves long unless by his own fault."
"Latin","No man ever became wicked all at once."
"Latin","No man commands ably unless he has himself obeyed discipline."
"Latin","No man can think well of himself who does not think well of others."
"Latin","No man can swim ashore and carry his baggage with him."
"Latin","No man can call again yesterday."
"Latin","No man can be happy without a friend, or be sure of his friend till he is unhappy."
"Latin","No man acquires perfection all at once."
"Latin","No injury can be complained of by a consenting party."
"Latin","No horse is so good, but that he will at times stumble."
"Latin","No herb can remedy the anguish of love."
"Latin","Many hands make light work."
"Latin","No gain satisfies a greedy mind."
"Latin","Love is a kind of military service."
"Latin","No gain is so certain as that which proceeds from the economical use of what you already have."
"Latin","No gain is as certain as that which proceeds from the economical use of what you already have."
"Latin","No folly like being in love."
"Latin","No day should pass without something being done."
"Latin","No day is wholly productive of evil."
"Latin","No bees, no honey."
"Latin","Night is the mother of council."
"Latin","Married life without children is as the day deprived of the sun's rays."
"Latin","Marriage is a lottery."
"Latin","March comes in like a lion, and goes out like a lamb."
"Latin","Many words, little credit."
"Latin","Many will hate you if you love yourself."
"Latin","No gains without pains."
"Latin","Let him that earns the bread eat it."
"Latin","Love is the fruit of love."
"Latin","Let them hate, so that they fear me."
"Latin","Let the poor man mind his tongue."
"Latin","Let the ignorant learn, and the learned delight in refreshing the memory."
"Latin","Let the devil never find you unoccupied."
"Latin","Let the buyer beware."
"Latin","Let the buyer be on his guard."
"Latin","Let not your sword be drawn at any man's bidding."
"Latin","Let not your right hand know what your left hand doeth."
"Latin","Let no man refuse to endure that which is common to the lot of all."
"Latin","Let no man be the servant of another, who can be his own master."
"Latin","Let it go for what it is worth."
"Latin","Let there be no delay."
"Latin","Let it be given to the most meritorious."
"Latin","Let us be judged of by our actions."
"Latin","Let him take the oars who has learned to row."
"Latin","Let him bear the prize, who has deserved it."
"Latin","Let each man do his best."
"Latin","Let a fool hold his tongue, and he will pass for a sage."
"Latin","Less of your courtesy, and more of your purse."
"Latin","Less malevolence, or more power to exercise it."
"Latin","Length of time rots a stone."
"Latin","Leave not your staff at home."
"Latin","Learning has sour roots, but pleasant fruits."
"Latin","Laughter abounds in the mouths of fools."
"Latin","Laugh, if you are wise."
"Latin","Laugh with those that laugh."
"Latin","Let it be well recorded that a harlot is a gate which leads to death."
"Latin","Lions in time of peace; deer in war."
"Latin","Love for those too easily won does not last long."
"Latin","Love conquers all things; let us own her dominion."
"Latin","Love brooks no delay."
"Latin","Love and dignity do not dwell together."
"Latin","Love and a cough cannot be hid."
"Latin","Lost time is never found again."
"Latin","Losses make us more cautious."
"Latin","Live your own life, for you will die your own death."
"Latin","Live not beyond your means."
"Latin","Live near a lame man, and you will soon learn to limp."
"Latin","Live according to your means."
"Latin","Little grain have I collected from a mass of chaff."
"Latin","Let them laugh that win."
"Latin","Listen to that which is openly and seriously spoken."
"Latin","No man is contented with his lot in this life."
"Latin","Limping justice ne'er will fail To hunt out the longest trail."
"Latin","Limit your inquiry after knowledge."
"Latin","Like prince, like people."
"Latin","Like priest, like people."
"Latin","Like mother, like daughter."
"Latin","Like mistress, like maid."
"Latin","Like likes like."
"Latin","Like a fish out of water."
"Latin","Light griefs can speak, but deeper ones are dumb."
"Latin","Liberate me from that bad fellow, myself."
"Latin","Liberal enough of another man's leather."
"Latin","Let us go, where fate directs us."
"Latin","Little drops produce the shower."
"Latin","We become wiser as we grow older."
"Latin","War gives no opportunity for repeating a mistake."
"Latin","We all envy other people's luck."
"Latin","We all refer to that of which we know most."
"Latin","We are born; we die."
"Latin","We are content to forgo joy when pain is also lost."
"Latin","We are not disposed to study much after heavy meals."
"Latin","What I do against my will cannot be said to be my own act."
"Latin","We are too busy mopping the floor to turn off the faucet."
"Latin","Walk softly but carry a big stick."
"Latin","We benefit by affliction."
"Latin","We can accustom ourselves to anything."
"Latin","We can enjoy nothing without some one to share the pleasure."
"Latin","We conquer and are conquered in our turn."
"Latin","We covet not that of the existence of which we are ignorant."
"Latin","We easily believe that which we hope for."
"Latin","We easily give advice to others."
"Latin","We are the authors of our own disasters."
"Latin","Vice is nourished by concealment."
"Latin","Under the rose."
"Latin","Unequalled in the smallest matters."
"Latin","Unless what we do is useful, glory is vain."
"Latin","Urge the horse close to the turning-post."
"Latin","Use not coercive measures against those in authority."
"Latin","Valour acquires strength by union."
"Latin","Valour even in an enemy is worthy of praise."
"Latin","War appears pleasant to those who have never experienced it."
"Latin","Venture a small fish to catch a great one."
"Latin","Want all lose all."
"Latin","Vices creep into our hearts under the name of virtue."
"Latin","Viper produces viper."
"Latin","Virtue and valour rejoice in being put to the test."
"Latin","Virtue our leader, fortune our companion."
"Latin","Virtue, which parleys, is near a surrender."
"Latin","Walk on your own lands."
"Latin","We give and take in turn."
"Latin","Vengeance is slow, but stern."
"Latin","Wear not boots too big for your feet."
"Latin","We expiate in old age the follies of our youth."
"Latin","We sow the wind, and reap the whirlwind."
"Latin","We start to die when we are born, and the end depends on the beginning."
"Latin","We trust what we see rather than what we hear."
"Latin","Wealth is protected and poverty is assisted by concord."
"Latin","Wealth lightens not the heart and care of man."
"Latin","Wealth makes worship."
"Latin","We should eat to live, not live to eat."
"Latin","Wealth, like an index, reveals the character of men."
"Latin","We shall never be younger."
"Latin","Wear not out your welcome."
"Latin","What a man does by the agency of another is his own act."
"Latin","What does the tortoise care for flies?"
"Latin","What everybody says must be true."
"Latin","What harm is there in making a trial?"
"Latin","What has benefited one has destroyed others."
"Latin","Think first and speak afterwards."
"Latin","Wealth not acquired by our own labours, but inherited."
"Latin","We must live as we can, not as we would wish."
"Latin","Turn of phrase."
"Latin","We hate the man whom we have wronged."
"Latin","We hate whom we have injured."
"Latin","We have all been fools in our time."
"Latin","We judge of the present from the past."
"Latin","We learn the value of things more in their loss than in their enjoyment."
"Latin","We lessen our wants by lessening our desires."
"Latin","We should trust more to our eyesight than to our ears."
"Latin","We lose the certain things, while we seek the uncertain ones."
"Latin","We find much ingratitude, and create more."
"Latin","We must not expect everything, everywhere, and from everybody."
"Latin","We need not friends if Providence smiles on us."
"Latin","We never profit by the gifts of the wicked."
"Latin","We pardon faults in youth."
"Latin","We pay when old for the excesses of youth."
"Latin","We perish by permitted things."
"Latin","We receive nothing with so much reluctance as advice."
"Latin","We live more by fashion than common sense."
"Latin","To have nothing is not poverty."
"Latin","To speak kindly does not hurt the tongue."
"Latin","To be loved, be loveable."
"Latin","To conceal disease is fatal."
"Latin","To condemn by a cutting laugh comes easily to all."
"Latin","To do a favour slowly is to begrudge it; to consent slowly shows unwillingness."
"Latin","To do good to the ungrateful is to throw rose-water into the sea."
"Latin","To every one who doth ask, but not everything he doth ask."
"Latin","Time softens animosity."
"Latin","To have no wants, is money."
"Latin","Time reveals all things."
"Latin","To him that hath much, shall much be given."
"Latin","To know nothing is the happiest life."
"Latin","To obtain that which is just we must ask that which is unjust."
"Latin","To place yourself under an obligation is to sell your liberty."
"Latin","To relax the mind is to lose it."
"Latin","To remove the hairs from a horse's tail, one by one must be plucked out."
"Latin","Unaccustomed to wear them, he displays the breeches he has on to every one he meets."
"Latin","To have been silent never does harm, but to have spoken does."
"Latin","Though malice may darken truth, it cannot put it out."
"Latin","Turn it inside and out."
"Latin","This grief will prove a blessing."
"Latin","Those who are conscious of their own iniquity, suspect others."
"Latin","Those who are nourished by hope live ever in suspense, and enjoy not life."
"Latin","Those who are once found to be bad are presumed to be so for ever."
"Latin","Those who attack, though they die in the attempt."
"Latin","Those who do a thing are consenting parties."
"Latin","To be in love and act wisely is scarcely granted to a god."
"Latin","Though living, dead for all useful purposes."
"Latin","To the ass, or the sow, their own offspring appears the fairest in creation."
"Latin","Though physician to others, yet himself full of sores."
"Latin","Three women will make as much noise as a market."
"Latin","Through dangers to distinction."
"Latin","Thus years glide by."
"Latin","Tide and time wait for no man."
"Latin","Time flies with hasty step."
"Latin","Time has a forelock, but is bald behind."
"Latin","Those who see the faults of others, and see not their own, are wise for others and fools for themselves."
"Latin","Truth conquers all things."
"Latin","To silence another, first be silent yourself."
"Latin","Trifling at an end, now let us go to the point."
"Latin","Troy is a thing of the past."
"Latin","True friends are tested in adversity."
"Latin","Trust no one, until you have eaten a peck of salt with him."
"Latin","Trust not a sword in the hands of a boy."
"Latin","Trust not a woman, even when dead."
"Latin","Treat your friends as if hereafter they will become your enemies, and your enemies as if they will become your friends."
"Latin","Truth becomes lost in the turmoil of arguments."
"Latin","Treat everything of this world as mere vanity."
"Latin","Truth is great and will prevail."
"Latin","Truth is violated by a lie or by silence."
"Latin","Truth lies at the bottom of a well."
"Latin","Truth may be suppressed, but not strangled."
"Latin","Truth will be out."
"Latin","Try to deserve the reputation you enjoy."
"Latin","What is an exalted position to a low fellow but a golden ring in a swine's snout?"
"Latin","Trust not your all in one ship."
"Latin","Too late for the fair."
"Latin","To the pure all things are pure."
"Latin","To understand a stammerer, you ought to stammer yourself."
"Latin","To whiten ivory with dye is to spoil nature by art."
"Latin","To whom is he any good, if he is no good to himself?"
"Latin","To win a war quickly takes long preparation."
"Latin","To work is to pray."
"Latin","To-morrow is the pupil of to-day."
"Latin","Trifles often lead to serious results."
"Latin","Too late do I take up the shield after the wound."
"Latin","Unable to keep yourself, you are keeping dogs."
"Latin","Too much care does more harm than good."
"Latin","Too much care may be as bad as downright negligence."
"Latin","Too much consulting confounds."
"Latin","Too much of a thing nauseates."
"Latin","Too much of anything is bad."
"Latin","Too much wine will make a sane man mad."
"Latin","Treachery will eventually betray itself; though wary enough at first."
"Latin","To-morrow we will credit it, not to-day."
"Latin","With his own weapon do I stab him."
"Latin","Wine in the bottle does not quench thirst."
"Latin","Wine is given to bring mirth not drunkenness."
"Latin","Wine is one thing, drunkenness another."
"Latin","Wine is the mirror of the mind."
"Latin","Wine mars beauty and destroys the freshness of youth."
"Latin","Winter is summer's heir."
"Latin","What has this to do with the matter?"
"Latin","Wisdom does not consist in dress."
"Latin","Wine carries no rudder."
"Latin","With one hand he scratches you, and with the other he strikes you."
"Latin","With the idle it is always holy day time."
"Latin","Without divine assistance we can achieve nothing."
"Latin","Without favour, art is like a windmill without wind."
"Latin","Women when injured are generally not easily appeased."
"Latin","Women's jars breed men's wars."
"Latin","Words butter not parsnips."
"Latin","Winter never rots in the sky."
"Latin","Whose life is as lightning, his words are as thunder."
"Latin","While we would catch we are caught."
"Latin","Whilst standing he holds one opinion, whilst sitting another."
"Latin","Who aims at things beyond his reach, the greater will be his fall."
"Latin","Who lies with dogs shall rise up with fleas."
"Latin","Who loses honor can lose nothing else."
"Latin","Who loves me loves my dog."
"Latin","Who timidly requests invites refusal."
"Latin","Wine hath drowned more men than the sea."
"Latin","Whose interest was it? To whose prejudice was it?"
"Latin","Wine gladdeneth the heart of man."
"Latin","Why wear out your great coat in summer?"
"Latin","Wickedness and malice only require an opportunity."
"Latin","Wickedness with beauty is the devil's hook baited."
"Latin","Wider ears and a short tongue."
"Latin","Win by persuasion not by force."
"Latin","Wine brings forth the truth."
"Latin","Work makes the workman."
"Latin","Who would avoid all strife, should be a bachelor."
"Latin","You compare the moorhen to the I swan."
"Latin","Words may either conceal character or reveal it."
"Latin","You attack a horned animal."
"Latin","You bring your own evil deeds to light."
"Latin","You can never consider that as your own which can be changed."
"Latin","You can't love Thetis and Galatea at the same time."
"Latin","You cannot catch a fox with a bait."
"Latin","You cannot catch old birds with chaff."
"Latin","You are what you eat."
"Latin","You compare the bee to the grasshopper."
"Latin","You are teaching iron to swim."
"Latin","You compare the tortoise to the hare."
"Latin","You count the sand."
"Latin","You give hay to the dog and bones to the ass."
"Latin","You give the wolf the wether to keep."
"Latin","You harp perpetually on the same string."
"Latin","You have come too late for the feast."
"Latin","You have got your feet out of the mire."
"Latin","You cannot have all you wish for."
"Latin","You are carrying owls to Athens."
"Latin","While there is life there is hope."
"Latin","Works have a stronger voice than words."
"Latin","Worthless is the advice of fools."
"Latin","Would you shear a donkey for wool."
"Latin","Would you take water to the frog?"
"Latin","Wrongdoers and assenting parties are equally punishable."
"Latin","Yield to divine power."
"Latin","You ask the path when the high road is before your eyes."
"Latin","You are but sowing in sand."
"Latin","Words pay no debts."
"Latin","You are comparing a rose to an anemone."
"Latin","You are his father by nature, I by counsel."
"Latin","You are looking for wings in a wolf."
"Latin","You are more shifting than a potter's wheel."
"Latin","You are needlessly alarmed."
"Latin","You are talking to a stone."
"Latin","You are teaching a fish to swim."
"Latin","You anoint the dead man with salve."
"Latin","What. you a hare, and ask for hare-pie."
"Latin","When I did well, I heard it never; when I did ill, I heard it ever."
"Latin","What will not performance achieve?"
"Latin","What you are doing do thoroughly."
"Latin","What you think of yourself is much more important than what others think of you."
"Latin","What you've never had you never miss."
"Latin","What's bred in the bone will come out in the flesh."
"Latin","What's bred in the bone will never out of the flesh."
"Latin","What though his hair be gray, his mind is no less vigorous than ever."
"Latin","What's done is done."
"Latin","What the sober man has in his heart, the drunkard has on his lips."
"Latin","Whatever you do, do with all your might."
"Latin","Whatever you undertake let it be proportioned to your powers."
"Latin","When a man's mode of life is contemptible, it follows that his preaching is treated with contempt."
"Latin","When an observation by joke is true, it is out of place and ill-natured."
"Latin","When an old dog barks, look out."
"Latin","When fortune deserts us, our friends are nowhere."
"Latin","While we draw we are drawn."
"Latin","What's done can't be mended."
"Latin","What limit is there in love?"
"Latin","What is lighter than a feather? Dust. What lighter than dust? Wind. What lighter than the wind? A harlot. What lighter than a harlot? Nothing."
"Latin","What is new is esteemed, but what is in every day use ceases to afford interest."
"Latin","What is not understood by what is less understood."
"Latin","What is not understood."
"Latin","What is permitted us we least desire."
"Latin","What is there that love will not achieve?"
"Latin","What is useful cannot be base."
"Latin","What we possess is always beautiful."
"Latin","What is worthwhile must needs be difficult."
"Latin","When in good health we easily give good advice to the sick."
"Latin","What need has a blind man of a looking glass?"
"Latin","What one knows it is sometimes useful to forget."
"Latin","What people in distress most wish for, they most readily believe."
"Latin","What raging rashly is begun, Challengeth shame before half done."
"Latin","What soberness conceals, drunkenness reveals."
"Latin","What the eye rarely sees, the heart soon despises."
"Latin","What the law will compel you to do, do of your own free will."
"Latin","What is viler than to be laughed at?"
"Latin","Where there is wealth, friends abound."
"Latin","When hunger is appeased we can preach the merits of fasting."
"Latin","Where curiosity is not the purveyor, detraction will soon be starved."
"Latin","Where freedom is, there shall my country be."
"Latin","Where the bee sucks honey the spider sucks poison."
"Latin","Where the carcase is, there will the vultures be."
"Latin","Where the carcass is, there shall the eagles be gathered together."
"Latin","Where the honey, there the bees."
"Latin","Where art is displayed truth does not appear."
"Latin","Where there is content there is abundance."
"Latin","When you will, they wont, when you wont, they will."
"Latin","Wherein have I erred? What have I done?"
"Latin","Wherever a man dwells, he shall be sure to have a thorn-bush near his door."
"Latin","Whether he will or no."
"Latin","While avoiding the smoke I have fallen into the flame."
"Latin","While between two stools my tail go to the ground."
"Latin","While life lasts let us enjoy it."
"Latin","Things rumoured lessen in importance as they assume reality."
"Latin","Where the love is, thither turns the eye."
"Latin","When the journey is finished to lay up provisions for the journey."
"Latin","When once at sea, do not long to be on shore."
"Latin","When one dog barks, another will follow suit."
"Latin","When one wave leaves, another succeeds."
"Latin","When one will not, two cannot quarrel."
"Latin","When rogues fallout, many a secret is revealed."
"Latin","When spherical bodies can unite and embrace, then there will be friendship amongst the avaricious."
"Latin","When the battle is over you make your appearance."
"Latin","Where bees are, there is honey."
"Latin","When the head acheth, all the body is the worse."
"Latin","While we discuss matters, the opportunity passes by."
"Latin","When the old dog barks it is time to watch."
"Latin","When the soul hungers, even bitter things taste sweet."
"Latin","When the tale of bricks is doubled, then Moses makes his appearance."
"Latin","When the tree is fallen, every one goeth to it with his hatchet."
"Latin","When the war is over then comes help."
"Latin","When you bargain with a fox, beware of tricks."
"Latin","When you can avoid it, never seek strife."
"Latin","When the head aches, all the members suffer with it."
"Latin","The course of true love never did run smooth."
"Latin","The chamber of sickness is the chapel of devotion."
"Latin","The cobbler should not go beyond his last."
"Latin","The cobbler to his last and the gunner to his linstock."
"Latin","The conquered dare not open their mouths."
"Latin","The conqueror weeps, the conquered is ruined."
"Latin","The corruption of the best things makes the worst."
"Latin","The hand that gives gathers."
"Latin","The course of a river is not to be altered."
"Latin","The carrion which the eagle has left feeds the crow."
"Latin","The cowl does not make the monk."
"Latin","The crab would catch the hare."
"Latin","The credit got by a lie lasts only till the truth comes out."
"Latin","The crow is a pretty bird when the jackdaw is not present."
"Latin","The dead are the best counsellors."
"Latin","The diseases of the mind are either caused or cured by the power of music."
"Latin","The doctor is to be feared more than the disease."
"Latin","The counsel of the aged is sound."
"Latin","The blind would lead the blind."
"Latin","The bear wants a tail and cannot be a lion."
"Latin","The bear, he never can prevail To lion it for want of tail."
"Latin","The beginning is half of the whole."
"Latin","The best things are the first to perish."
"Latin","The best things come in small packages."
"Latin","The best things in life are free."
"Latin","The best throw of the dice is to throw them away."
"Latin","The challenger is beaten."
"Latin","The blind man wishes to show the way."
"Latin","The cause at an end, the effect is removed."
"Latin","The blossoms in the spring are the fruit in autumn."
"Latin","The blow falls more lightly when it is anticipated."
"Latin","The bones for those who come late."
"Latin","The brave man may die, but he will never say ""die."""
"Latin","The bust of Mercury cannot be carved in every wood."
"Latin","The carriage draws the ox."
"Latin","The end crowns the work."
"Latin","The bitch in her haste brings forth blind puppies."
"Latin","The grape is not ripened by the rays of the moon."
"Latin","The eagle does not catch flies."
"Latin","The gladiator seeks advice, when in the very lists."
"Latin","The gnat trusting itself to the flame is singed."
"Latin","The gods assist the industrious."
"Latin","The gods sell all things for labour."
"Latin","The gods send nuts to those who have no teeth."
"Latin","The good fortunes of life fall to the lot even of the base."
"Latin","The gifts of fortune do not always benefit us."
"Latin","The goodwill accompanying the gift is the best portion of it."
"Latin","The future struggles against being mastered."
"Latin","The grasshopper is dear to the grasshopper, the ant loves the ant."
"Latin","The great elephant of India cares not for a gnat."
"Latin","The greater the fool, the greater his insolence."
"Latin","The greatest consideration is due to the innocence of youth."
"Latin","The habits of our youth accompany us in our old age."
"Latin","The half is better than the whole."
"Latin","Think late, suffer soon."
"Latin","The good is the enemy of the best."
"Latin","The fear of death is worse than death itself."
"Latin","The avenging gods have their feet clothed in wool."
"Latin","The end justifies the means."
"Latin","The evil is lessened when it is seen beforehand."
"Latin","The excess of mirth leads to tears."
"Latin","The face is the index to the mind."
"Latin","The face is the portrait of the mind; the eyes, its informers."
"Latin","The faded rose No suitor knows."
"Latin","The girl is more inviting who smells of wild thyme than she who smells of musk."
"Latin","The favour of the great is not lasting."
"Latin","The early morn favours study."
"Latin","The field should be poorer than the farmer."
"Latin","The fish requires salt."
"Latin","The fool would teach the learned."
"Latin","The force of anger is broken by a soft answer."
"Latin","The force which a body at rest exercises on a body in motion impinging upon it."
"Latin","The fox loves cunning, the wolf covets the lamb, and a woman longs for praise."
"Latin","The fox may grow gray, but never good."
"Latin","The Fates will not permit it."
"Latin","Stupid is as stupid does."
"Latin","Success or ruin."
"Latin","Stand away from a horse's heels."
"Latin","Stolen waters are the sweetest."
"Latin","Stone dead hath no fellow."
"Latin","Straitened circumstances."
"Latin","Strange sins, strange punishments."
"Latin","Strike me a light, and I'll light you."
"Latin","Spur not a willing horse."
"Latin","Study invites study, idleness produces idleness."
"Latin","Spur not a free horse to death."
"Latin","Stupidity is a force unto itself."
"Latin","Submission to one wrong brings on another."
"Latin","Submit to the rule you have yourself laid down."
"Latin","Subtlety set a trap and caught itself."
"Latin","Success alters our manners."
"Latin","Success leads to insolence."
"Latin","The bad refrain from sin from fear of punishment."
"Latin","Strike when the iron is hot."
"Latin","Sorrow follows pleasure."
"Latin","Soon ripe, soon rotten."
"Latin","Sooner could you hide an elephant under your armpit."
"Latin","Sooner shall earth mount to heaven."
"Latin","Sooner will a beetle make honey."
"Latin","Sooner will the tamarisk bear apples."
"Latin","Sooner will the wolf take the sheep for a wife."
"Latin","Sorrow and ill weather come unsent for."
"Latin","Stagnant waters putrefy."
"Latin","Sorrow dwells on the confines of pleasure."
"Latin","Summer will not last for ever."
"Latin","Sorrows come uninvited."
"Latin","Sour grapes will ne'er make sweet wine."
"Latin","Speak not against the dead."
"Latin","Speaking, though speechless, it exercises dominion over the mind."
"Latin","Speech both conceals and reveals the thoughts of men."
"Latin","Spendthrifts are always of necessity greedy and covetous."
"Latin","Spring succeeds to winter."
"Latin","Sorrow brings on premature old age."
"Latin","That which we obtain too easily, we esteem too lightly."
"Latin","Success makes a fool seem wise."
"Latin","That which is his lot to-day may be yours to-morrow."
"Latin","That which is not understood is always marvellous."
"Latin","That which is sweet to some is bitter to others."
"Latin","That which is violent never lasts long."
"Latin","That which is wanting in some respects, may be made up for in others."
"Latin","That which satisfies is enough."
"Latin","That which is despised is often most useful."
"Latin","That which was bitter to endure may be sweet to remember."
"Latin","That which is deferred is not abandoned."
"Latin","That which we really require not is dear at a farthing."
"Latin","The absent one will not be the heir."
"Latin","The act itself does not constitute a crime, unless the intent be criminal."
"Latin","The antidote before the poison."
"Latin","The assistance of fools only brings injury."
"Latin","The autumn of beauty is still beautiful."
"Latin","The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world."
"Latin","That which should feed our children ought not to be given to dogs."
"Latin","Tears are at times as eloquent as words."
"Latin","Sweet is war to those who have never experienced it."
"Latin","Take counsel of your pillow."
"Latin","Take not the antidote before the poison."
"Latin","Take time: much may be gained by patience."
"Latin","Take time: much may be gained by patience."
"Latin","Talent and poverty, wealth and stupidity generally dwell together."
"Latin","Talk of the devil and he'll appear."
"Latin","That which is good for the back is bad for the head."
"Latin","Teach an eagle to fly, a dolphin to swim."
"Latin","The axe forgets what the tree remembers."
"Latin","Test the danger by the Carians."
"Latin","Thank 'ee for nothing."
"Latin","That country will I call mine which supports me, not that which gave me birth."
"Latin","That fair face will as years roll on lose its beauty, and old age will bring its wrinkles to the brow."
"Latin","That is with difficulty preserved which all hanker after."
"Latin","That which I receive, that I return."
"Latin","That which is beyond our reach is nothing to us."
"Latin","Taught in the same school."
"Latin","There grows not the herb, which can protect against the power of death."
"Latin","The will cannot be compelled."
"Latin","The wind will let us neither sail nor stay."
"Latin","The wolf changes his coat but not his nature."
"Latin","The wolf changes his hair, but not his nature."
"Latin","The wolf dances round the well."
"Latin","The work tests the workman."
"Latin","The hand often travels to the part where the pain is."
"Latin","There are many languages on earth, but one in heaven."
"Latin","The toothless man envies those who can eat well."
"Latin","There is a black sheep in every flock."
"Latin","There is a good time coming."
"Latin","There is a season for all things."
"Latin","There is a skeleton in every house."
"Latin","There is a time and place for everything."
"Latin","There is a time for all things."
"Latin","There is a time for everything."
"Latin","The workmanship surpassed the material."
"Latin","The swans will not sing till the jackdaws are quiet."
"Latin","The shadow for the substance."
"Latin","The shirt is nearer than the coat."
"Latin","The silence resulting from absence has destroyed many a friendship."
"Latin","The silver is become dross."
"Latin","The skin of a lion covering some mongrel beast."
"Latin","The smoke of our own country is brighter than fire abroad."
"Latin","The sow has been greeted with music."
"Latin","The whisperer's tongue is worse than serpent's venom."
"Latin","The stupid fear fortune, the wise endure it."
"Latin","The warnings of age are the weapons of youth."
"Latin","The swift are overtaken by the slow."
"Latin","The tale is marred in the telling."
"Latin","The tears of an heir are laughter under a mask."
"Latin","The test of merit is success."
"Latin","The times are changing; we too are changing with them."
"Latin","The title is one thing, the contents another."
"Latin","There is danger when a dog has once tasted flesh."
"Latin","The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak."
"Latin","They who are thirsty drink in silence."
"Latin","There is a time when nothing should be said, there is a time when some things may be said. but there is indeed no time in which everything can be said."
"Latin","They fought with varying success."
"Latin","They found no fault with Time, save that he fled."
"Latin","They give, to find a pretext for asking."
"Latin","They laugh till they cry."
"Latin","They limit their expenditure where it is not needed, and are ever lavish of that of which they should be sparing."
"Latin","They look at the greens, but steal the bacon."
"Latin","They cease to be friends who dwell afar off."
"Latin","They understand each other, like thieves at a fair."
"Latin","They can do least who boast loudest."
"Latin","Thief knows thief, and wolf knows wolf."
"Latin","Thieves dread a commotion."
"Latin","Things beyond our reach are not worth our consideration."
"Latin","Things coming from afar are most esteemed."
"Latin","Things hardly attained are the longer retained."
"Latin","Things hatched in discord are not speedily terminated."
"Latin","Things past cannot be recalled."
"Latin","They marry under bad auspices who marry in the month of May."
"Latin","There is nothing more telling than wit."
"Latin","The sacrifice of an ox will not bring us all we want."
"Latin","There is more to be feared from the doctor than the disease."
"Latin","There is no accounting for tastes."
"Latin","There is no departing from the words of the law."
"Latin","There is no good but contains some evil; no evil but contains some good."
"Latin","There is no remedy against the bite of a secret slanderer."
"Latin","There is no way to make money so certain as to save what you have."
"Latin","They fight with tweezers, not swords."
"Latin","There is no wise response to a foolish remark."
"Latin","There is always a first time."
"Latin","There is nothing new under the sun."
"Latin","There is nothing so intolerable as a fortunate fool."
"Latin","There is nothing to be gained by buying inferior goods."
"Latin","There is often wisdom under a shabby coat."
"Latin","There's death in the pot."
"Latin","They attend a funeral robed in white, and a wedding in mourning."
"Latin","They build houses but shall not inhabit them."
"Latin","There is no wheat without chaff."
"Latin","The more honesty a man has the less he affects the air of a saint."
"Latin","The old cask tastes of what the new cask held."
"Latin","The memory of happiness makes misery woeful."
"Latin","The mice have taken themselves off."
"Latin","The mill cannot grind with the water that is past."
"Latin","The miller sees not every wave that flows."
"Latin","The mind is best taught with a sharp whip."
"Latin","The mind when unoccupied knows not what it wants."
"Latin","The means were wanting, not the will."
"Latin","The misfortunes to which we are accustomed affect us less deeply."
"Latin","The master's eye makes the horse fat."
"Latin","The more they have, the more they want."
"Latin","The more we have, the more we want."
"Latin","The more you give in, the more you have to give in."
"Latin","The most pleasant cruise is near the land; the most inviting walk near the sea."
"Latin","The mouse is caught in the trap."
"Latin","The names of fools are always written on walls."
"Latin","The same shoe does not fit every foot."
"Latin","The misfortune of the foolish is a warning to the wise."
"Latin","The intemperate die young, and rarely en joy old age."
"Latin","The happier the time, the more quickly it passes."
"Latin","The harp dispels care."
"Latin","The hatred of knaves is to be preferred to their company."
"Latin","The hedge is trodden down where it seems to lean."
"Latin","The highest seat will not hold more than one."
"Latin","The highest spoke in fortune's wheel may soon turn lowest."
"Latin","The highest tree hath the greatest fall."
"Latin","The memory of a benefit vanisheth, but the remembrance of an injury sticketh fast in the heart."
"Latin","The hour is passing."
"Latin","The old monkey is caught last."
"Latin","The knowledge of sin is the beginning of salvation."
"Latin","The laborer is worthy of his hire."
"Latin","The labour is in itself a pleasure."
"Latin","The laughter, the tears, and the song of a woman are equally deceptive."
"Latin","The law of requital of injury by injury."
"Latin","The madness of one makes many mad."
"Latin","The magpie is competing with the nightingale."
"Latin","The hindmost dog may catch the hare."
"Latin","The remembrance of past pleasures adds to present sorrows."
"Latin","The naming of one man amounts to the exclusion of another."
"Latin","The rabble, as of old, truckles to success, and hates a favourite in disgrace."
"Latin","The race is not always to the swift."
"Latin","The rack can extort a false confession from the innocent."
"Latin","The rat betrayed by his own track perishes."
"Latin","The razor against the grindstone."
"Latin","The real nettle will sting early."
"Latin","The quoit attracts them more than philosophy."
"Latin","The remedy for injuries is to forget them."
"Latin","The provoking pertinacity of a fly."
"Latin","The reserve are engaged."
"Latin","The revenge of an idiot is without mercy."
"Latin","The reward of a thing rightly done is to have done it."
"Latin","The reward of silence is certain."
"Latin","The Roman conquered by delay."
"Latin","The rough manners of the vulgar are contagious."
"Latin","Some things are better praised by silence than by remark."
"Latin","The real world is a special case."
"Latin","The pig prefers mud to clean water."
"Latin","The old parrot does not mind the stick."
"Latin","The owl has one note, the crow another."
"Latin","The owl sings to the nightingale."
"Latin","The ox in a strange stall often casts a longing look towards the door."
"Latin","The ox when most weary is most surefooted."
"Latin","The parrot utters one cry, the quail another."
"Latin","The passing hour is sometimes a mother, sometimes a stepmother."
"Latin","The rabble is not influenced by reason, but blind impulse."
"Latin","The people want to be deceived."
"Latin","The same failings attach not to all."
"Latin","The plan executed, reason comes to our assistance."
"Latin","The pleasures of love are enhanced by injuries."
"Latin","The pleasures of the mighty are the tears of the poor."
"Latin","The pleasures we enjoy are lost by coveting more."
"Latin","The position in which we were before the war."
"Latin","The post of honor is the post of danger."
"Latin","The prolonged visit of no guest is pleasant."
"Latin","The penalty attaching to evil deeds should be thought of in time."
"Latin","Do as you would be done unto."
"Latin","Despise not the weak: the gnat stings the eyes of the lion."
"Latin","Despise school and remain a fool."
"Latin","Different men like different things."
"Latin","Different pursuits suit different ages."
"Latin","Different strokes for different folks."
"Latin","Differing in words, not in reality."
"Latin","Envy waits on boasting."
"Latin","Do as I say, not as I do."
"Latin","Desire of glory is the last garment that even wise men put off."
"Latin","Do business best when the wind's in the west."
"Latin","Do chattering monkeys mimic men, Or we, turned apes, out-monkey them?"
"Latin","Do not give an opinion until it is asked for."
"Latin","Do not lengthen the quarrel while there is an opportunity of escaping."
"Latin","Do well and have well."
"Latin","Don't be frightened at high-sounding words."
"Latin","Don't do that of which you doubt the propriety."
"Latin","Divide and rule."
"Latin","Death snatches away the most deserving, and leaves the wicked."
"Latin","Danger can never by overcome without taking risks."
"Latin","Dawn is the friend of the muses."
"Latin","Dead men do not bite."
"Latin","Death brings to a level spades and sceptres."
"Latin","Death cancels everything but truth."
"Latin","Death defies the doctor."
"Latin","Death is common to all."
"Latin","Despise not the weak: the gnat stings the eyes of the lion."
"Latin","Death is the great leveller."
"Latin","Desires are nourished by delays."
"Latin","Death to the wolf is life to the lambs."
"Latin","Deeds not words are required."
"Latin","Deliberate often -- decide once."
"Latin","Deliberate slowly, execute quickly."
"Latin","Deliberation often loses a good chance."
"Latin","Desire nothing that would bring disgrace."
"Latin","Don't that just butter your grits."
"Latin","Death is preferable."
"Latin","England is the paradise of women, the hell of horses, and the purgatory of servants."
"Latin","Don't draw another's bow, don't ride another's horse, don't mind another's business."
"Latin","Either Caesar, or nobody."
"Latin","Either never attempt a thing or carry it out."
"Latin","Eloquence avails nothing against the voice of gold."
"Latin","Empty expressions. Bombast."
"Latin","Empty pitchers ring loudest."
"Latin","Empty the glass if you would judge of the drink."
"Latin","Either a ship or a tuft of feathers."
"Latin","Emulation is the whetstone of talent."
"Latin","Eels become accustomed to skinning."
"Latin","England's difficulty is Ireland's opportunity."
"Latin","Enjoying the fruits of the labour of others."
"Latin","Enough, even to loathing."
"Latin","Enter not at all, or else pass through."
"Latin","Envy is the companion of glory."
"Latin","Envy never has a holiday."
"Latin","Happy is the man whose father went to the devil."
"Latin","Emulation begets emulation."
"Latin","Each man has his peculiar hobby."
"Latin","Cowards win no laurels."
"Latin","Doth the moon on high care for the barking of a dog?"
"Latin","Double charging will break a cannon."
"Latin","Dropping water makes the rock hollow, not by its force, but by constant action."
"Latin","Drown not thyself to save a drowning man."
"Latin","Drumming is not the way to catch a hare."
"Latin","Drunkenness makes some men fools, some beasts, and some devils."
"Latin","Either by might or by sleight."
"Latin","Each hour injures, the last one slays."
"Latin","Don't tell a secret to anybody, unless you want the whole world to know it."
"Latin","Each man makes his own shipwreck."
"Latin","Each man's character shapes his fortunes."
"Latin","Early ripe, early rotten."
"Latin","Early rising is most conducive to health."
"Latin","Early, not late remedies are the most effective."
"Latin","Eat well, drink in moderation, and sleep sound, in these three good health abound."
"Latin","Education is the poor man's haven."
"Latin","Dry bread at home is better than roast meat abroad."
"Latin","By hook or by crook."
"Latin","By speedy, not by slow measures."
"Latin","Bring not a bagpipe to a man in trouble."
"Latin","Build but one nest in one tree."
"Latin","But now I was a rich man, three things have left me bare; dice, wine, and women, these three have made me poor."
"Latin","By a brave endurance of unavoidable evils, we conquer them."
"Latin","By doing nothing men learn to do evil."
"Latin","By fair means or foul."
"Latin","Bribes will enter without knocking."
"Latin","By good nature and kindness even fierce spirits become tractable."
"Latin","Brevity is the soul of wit."
"Latin","By hook or crook."
"Latin","By ignorance we mistake, and by mistakes we learn."
"Latin","By learning you will teach; by teaching you will learn."
"Latin","By much laughter you detect the fool."
"Latin","By perseverance the Greeks reached Troy."
"Latin","By pleasing, while we instruct."
"Latin","Cultivate the garden within."
"Latin","By good means or bad."
"Latin","Boldness in business is the first, second, and third thing."
"Latin","Beware of a man of one book."
"Latin","Beware of a silent dog and still water."
"Latin","Beware of the dog."
"Latin","Beware the tyranny of the minority."
"Latin","Birds fly not into our mouths ready roasted."
"Latin","Birds in their little nests agree."
"Latin","Bold in design, but timid in execution."
"Latin","Bright enough in the dark, dull in time of day."
"Latin","Boldly ventured is half won."
"Latin","By submitting to an old insult you invite a new one."
"Latin","Bolt a door with a boiled carrot."
"Latin","Bones snatched from the mouth of a hungry dog."
"Latin","Both are the better for their mutual friendship."
"Latin","Brag's a good dog, but Holdfast's a better."
"Latin","Branches may be trained; not the trunk."
"Latin","Brave men lived before Agamemnon."
"Latin","Brevity is pleasing."
"Latin","Bold resolution is the favourite of providence."
"Latin","Contrasts mutually set off each other."
"Latin","By repeated blows even the oak is felled."
"Latin","Conscience betrays guilt."
"Latin","Conscience is as a thousand witnesses."
"Latin","Consider how long the winter will last."
"Latin","Consideration gets as many victories as rashness loses."
"Latin","Consideration is the parent of wisdom."
"Latin","Consideration should be shown to a novice."
"Latin","Compete not with a friend."
"Latin","Constant dropping wears away a stone."
"Latin","Colewort twice cooked."
"Latin","Conversation ministers to a mind diseased."
"Latin","Conviviality reveals secrets."
"Latin","Correct a wise man, and he will be grateful; correct a fool, and he will not only give a deaf ear, but send you off with a flea in your ear."
"Latin","Court not companionship with tigers."
"Latin","Courts grant not their favours as men are good and deserving."
"Latin","Covet not the property of others."
"Latin","Even a boy can beat a man when bound."
"Latin","Constant dripping wears away the rock."
"Latin","Catch the opportunity."
"Latin","By suppers more have been killed than Galen ever cured."
"Latin","By the familiarity of the master the servant is spoilt."
"Latin","By the hands of many a great work is made light."
"Latin","By what servant is his master better loved than by his dog?"
"Latin","By writing you learn to write."
"Latin","Caesar's wife should be above suspicion."
"Latin","Calumniate strongly and some of it will stick."
"Latin","Confound those who have anticipated us in what we would have said."
"Latin","Carthage must be destroyed."
"Latin","Cultivate not a barren soil."
"Latin","Catching's before hanging."
"Latin","Cautious in small matters, careless in great."
"Latin","Cease your jests, there is no joke in being ill-natured."
"Latin","Censure pardons the ravens but rebukes the doves."
"Latin","Choose a wife from among your equals."
"Latin","Clodius impeaches the adulterers."
"Latin","Close sits my shirt, but closer my skin."
"Latin","Candour breeds hatred."
"Latin","From our ancestors come our names, but from our virtues our honours."
"Latin","Fraud lurks in loose generalities."
"Latin","Friends become foes, and foes are reconciled."
"Latin","Friends have all things in common."
"Latin","Friendship lasts as long as the pot boils."
"Latin","From a pure source pure water comes."
"Latin","From a simple spark there will often be produced a great conflagration."
"Latin","Envy no man."
"Latin","From one you may judge of the whole."
"Latin","Fortune smiles on the brave, and frowns upon the coward."
"Latin","From small things a great heap is made."
"Latin","From the miseries of others he fears for his own position."
"Latin","From the old ox the young one learns to plough."
"Latin","From trifling causes great results arise."
"Latin","From what has taken place we infer what is about to happen."
"Latin","Frugality is a great revenue."
"Latin","Frugality is an estate alone."
"Latin","From his silence a man's consent is inferred."
"Latin","Fortunate is he whom the dangers of others have rendered cautious."
"Latin","Fling him into the Nile, and he will come up with a fish in his mouth."
"Latin","For a paltry gift, little thanks."
"Latin","For God and our country."
"Latin","For our altars and our hearths."
"Latin","For the king, the laws and the people."
"Latin","For the last comer the bones."
"Latin","Force not favours on the unwilling."
"Latin","Fortune wearies with carrying one and the same man always."
"Latin","Forgetting trouble is the way to cure it."
"Latin","Fortune to one is mother, to another step-mother."
"Latin","Fortune and the arts assist each other."
"Latin","Fortune enriches or tramples on us at her will."
"Latin","Fortune favors the bold, but abandons the timid."
"Latin","Fortune favours fools."
"Latin","Fortune helps the brave."
"Latin","Fortune is fickle and soon asks back what he has given."
"Latin","Full of courtesy, full of craft."
"Latin","Forget not that you are a man."
"Latin","Habit causes love."
"Latin","Fruit ripens not well in the shade."
"Latin","Good things soon find a purchaser."
"Latin","Govern your passions, or they will govern you."
"Latin","Great discomfort arises from too hearty a supper: if you would enjoy a tranquil sleep let your supper be a light one."
"Latin","Great fish feed on the lesser."
"Latin","Grieve not for that which is irreparably lost."
"Latin","Grieving for misfortunes is adding gall to wormwood."
"Latin","Good health and good sense are two great blessings."
"Latin","Grow where you are planted."
"Latin","Good debts become bad unless called in."
"Latin","Habit gives readiness."
"Latin","Habit in sinning takes away the sense of sin."
"Latin","Habit is second nature."
"Latin","Had he not been visited by sickness, he would have perished utterly."
"Latin","Happiness invites envy."
"Latin","Happy are one-eyed men in the country of the blind."
"Latin","Happy is the man who is out of debt."
"Latin","Grind with every wind."
"Latin","Give to each man that which is his due."
"Latin","Fire, water, and government know nothing of mercy."
"Latin","Gather flowers while the morning sun lasts."
"Latin","Gather thistles, expect prickles."
"Latin","Gently but firmly."
"Latin","Gently, not by force."
"Latin","Give a helping hand to a man in trouble."
"Latin","Give assistance, and receive thanks lighter than a feather: injure a man, and his wrath will be like lead."
"Latin","Good luck lasts not for ever."
"Latin","Give ear to that man who has four ears."
"Latin","Full feasting breeds ferocity."
"Latin","Give way to him with whom you contend; by doing so you will gain the victory."
"Latin","Give wine to them that are in sorrow."
"Latin","Glory is the shadow of virtue."
"Latin","God sends enough to all."
"Latin","God sends meat, but the Devil sends cooks."
"Latin","God will be present, whether asked or not."
"Latin","Gold is proved by fire."
"Latin","Give ear and weigh the matter well."
"Latin","Every man judges of others by himself."
"Latin","Every stone conceals a lurking scorpion."
"Latin","Every great thing only consists of many small particles united."
"Latin","Every innovation startles us more by its novelty than it benefits us by its utility."
"Latin","Every little blade of grass declares the presence of God."
"Latin","Every lover is a slave: he follows captive at his mistress's heels."
"Latin","Every lover is a slave: he follows captive at his mistress's heels."
"Latin","Every madman thinks all other men mad."
"Latin","Ever receive a present with approbation."
"Latin","Every man has his peculiar habit."
"Latin","Even the smallest spark shines brightly in darkness."
"Latin","Every man rejoices in his peculiar study."
"Latin","Every man who can blow a horn is not a huntsman."
"Latin","Every man's sin falls on his own head."
"Latin","Every may-be hath a may-be not."
"Latin","Every reproach against an accused man is contemptible."
"Latin","Every sheet has parted."
"Latin","Flight towards preferment will be but slow without some golden feathers."
"Latin","Every man for himself."
"Latin","Even Jupiter himself cannot be in love and wise at the same time."
"Latin","Even a child may beat a man that's bound."
"Latin","Even a fly can show temper."
"Latin","Even a fool sometimes speaks to the purpose."
"Latin","Even a hair hath its shadow."
"Latin","Even a hare will insult a dead lion."
"Latin","Even a mangy camel will carry more that a herd of asses."
"Latin","Even a straw becomes heavy, if you carry it far enough."
"Latin","Every advantage has its disadvantage."
"Latin","Even hares insult a dead lion."
"Latin","Every suitor is not a heart breaker."
"Latin","Even light takes a decade to travel ten light-years."
"Latin","Even the ant hath its anger."
"Latin","Even the beggar envies the beggar."
"Latin","Even the fear of death is dispelled by music."
"Latin","Even the fountains thirst."
"Latin","Even the gods are conciliated by offerings."
"Latin","Even the rustling of leaves will alarm the hare."
"Latin","Even after a bad harvest there must be sowing."
"Latin","Find words butter no parsnips."
"Latin","Every soil does not bear the same fruit."
"Latin","Fear increasing age, for it does not come without companions."
"Latin","Fear not a jest. If one throws salt at you, you will not be harmed unless you have sore places."
"Latin","Feigned love is worse than hatred."
"Latin","Fetters of gold are still fetters, and silken cords pinch."
"Latin","Fight with silver spears, and you will overcome everything."
"Latin","Figs he calls figs, a spade a spade."
"Latin","Fashion is more powerful than any tyrant."
"Latin","Find a cruel man and you see a coward."
"Latin","Far from Jupiter, far from his thunder."
"Latin","Find you without an excuse, and find a hare without a meuse."
"Latin","Finders keepers losers weepers."
"Latin","Findings keepings."
"Latin","Fire is next akin to smoke."
"Latin","Fire will not put out fire. Anger is not appeased by anger."
"Latin","Fire, the sea, and woman; these are three ills."
"Latin","Benefits, like flowers, please most when they are fresh."
"Latin","Fill your garners, harvest lasts not for ever."
"Latin","Excess of obligations may lose a friend."
"Latin","Every virtue is but halfway between two vices."
"Latin","Everybody has a name, but not always the same luck with it."
"Latin","Everyone is eloquent in his own cause."
"Latin","Everyone is given the key to the gates of Heaven. The same key opens the gates of Hell."
"Latin","Everything beautiful is loveable."
"Latin","Everything has its season."
"Latin","Evils follow each other."
"Latin","Favours should never be forced upon others against their will."
"Latin","Excess of delight palls the appetite."
"Latin","Flies, dogs. and mimics are the first to rush to the dish."
"Latin","Experience is the best teacher."
"Latin","Experience purchased by suffering teaches wisdom."
"Latin","Experience without learning is better than learning without experience."
"Latin","Explaining what is obscure by what is still more obscure."
"Latin","Extreme law, extreme injustice."
"Latin","Fain would the cat fish eat, But she is loth to wet her feet."
"Latin","False in one respect, never trustworthy."
"Latin","Excess in anything becomes a vice."
"Latin","A middle course is the safest."
"Latin","A man is judged by his clothes."
"Latin","A man is judged of by his companions."
"Latin","A man is not where he lives, but where he loves."
"Latin","A man may lose what are his clearest rights by not demanding them."
"Latin","A man of few words but learned withal."
"Latin","A man of gladness seldom falls into madness."
"Latin","Better take time."
"Latin","A man of three letters, "" F U R."""
"Latin","A man if he lives alone is either a god or a demon."
"Latin","A mind conscious of guilt is its own accuser."
"Latin","A mind conscious of innocence laughs at the lies of rumor."
"Latin","A miser's son is generally a spendthrift."
"Latin","A monkey is not to be caught in a trap."
"Latin","A mouse in pitch."
"Latin","A mouse in time may bite in two a cable."
"Latin","A mouse may help a lion."
"Latin","A man of good natural plain common sense."
"Latin","A letter once written cannot be recalled."
"Latin","A kindness bestowed on the good is never thrown away."
"Latin","A king or a slave."
"Latin","A king's castle is his home."
"Latin","A king's chaff is worth more than other men's corn."
"Latin","A king, a master, a parent, a judge, may fail to frighten us; but sickness coming brings with it successful reproof."
"Latin","A learned man has always wealth in himself."
"Latin","A lengthy sermon is intolerable."
"Latin","A man is a king in his own house."
"Latin","A leopard does not change his spots."
"Latin","A man in a passion rides a horse that runs away with him."
"Latin","A liar is not believed when he speaks the truth."
"Latin","A light supper is beneficial."
"Latin","A lion may be beholden to a mouse."
"Latin","A lover should be regarded as a person demented."
"Latin","A man as he manages himself may die old at thirty, or young at eighty."
"Latin","A man devoid of religion is like a horse without a bridle."
"Latin","A nail is driven out by another nail; habit is overcome by habit."
"Latin","A leopard cannot change his spots."
"Latin","A snake lies concealed in the grass."
"Latin","A mouse relies not solely on one hole."
"Latin","A sceptre is one thing, a ladle another."
"Latin","A service done to the unwilling is no service."
"Latin","A sick mind cannot endure any harshness."
"Latin","A silent woman is always more admired than a noisy one."
"Latin","A slave yesterday, to-day a freedman."
"Latin","A slice off a cut loaf isn't missed."
"Latin","A rose is a rose is a rose."
"Latin","A small gift, but well-timed."
"Latin","A rogue says ""Yes"" to what a rogue says."
"Latin","A soft answer bids a Furioso to put up his sword."
"Latin","A soft-spoken compliment is honied poison."
"Latin","A store-house of evil is a woman if she is depraved."
"Latin","A strong remedy for evils is ignorance of them."
"Latin","A surgeon tries his experiments on the heads of orphans."
"Latin","A suspicious mind sees everything on the dark side."
"Latin","A swarm in May is worth a load of hay; a swarm in June is worth a silver spoon; but a swarm in July is not worth a fly."
"Latin","A small competence is best."
"Latin","A poor joke must invent its own laughter."
"Latin","A hungry man will listen to nothing."
"Latin","A nobody to-day, a prince to-morrow."
"Latin","A nod for a wise man, and a rod for a fool."
"Latin","A perfect whipping-top for changing sides."
"Latin","A pestilence follows a famine."
"Latin","A physician is an angel when employed, but a devil when one must pay him."
"Latin","A picture is a poem wanting words."
"Latin","A rotten egg cannot be spoiled."
"Latin","A poor cask often holds good wine."
"Latin","A mouse will put the finishing stroke to a castle wall."
"Latin","A precipice in front of you, and wolves behind you; that is life."
"Latin","A precipice is in front, a wolf behind."
"Latin","A prospering man should remain at home."
"Latin","A rich man is either a rogue or a rogue's heir."
"Latin","A ridiculous accident has often been the making of many."
"Latin","A ring of gold in a sow's nostril."
"Latin","A rising tide lifts all boats."
"Latin","A plank in a wreck."
"Latin","A cough will stick longer by a horse than a peck of oats."
"Latin","A dog as he sleeps barks as if on the track of the hare."
"Latin","A clear conscience is a wall of brass."
"Latin","A combined defence is the safest."
"Latin","A common blot is held no stain."
"Latin","A common shipwreck is a consolation to all."
"Latin","A constant guest is never welcome."
"Latin","A contented man is always rich."
"Latin","A chair unsound Soon finds the ground."
"Latin","A cough assists a musician when he hesitates."
"Latin","A chain is only as strong as its weakest link."
"Latin","A covetous man does nothing that he should till he dies."
"Latin","A crooked log is not to be straightened."
"Latin","A dealer in rubbish sounds the praises of rubbish."
"Latin","A delightful hallucination."
"Latin","A depraved mind never comes to good."
"Latin","A diligent man ever finds that something remains to be done."
"Latin","A jealous woman will set a whole house on fire."
"Latin","A contented mind is a continual feast."
"Latin","A blockhead, a dolt, a donkey, a leaden-headed fellow."
"Latin","'Tis folly to love fetters, though they be of gold."
"Latin","'Tis gold Which makes the true man killed, and saves the thief; Nay, sometimes hangs both thief and true man; what Can it not do, and undo?"
"Latin","'Tis wisdom sometimes to seem a fool."
"Latin","A bad father has never a good son."
"Latin","A beardless boy would teach old men."
"Latin","A beaten track is a safe one."
"Latin","A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush."
"Latin","A child may have too much of his mother's blessing."
"Latin","A biting cur wears a torn skin."
"Latin","A dog in a kennel barks at his fleas; a dog hunting does not notice them."
"Latin","A blow from a frying-pan blacks, though it may not hurt."
"Latin","A bow too much bent is broken."
"Latin","A busybody is always malevolent."
"Latin","A captive they insult with impunity."
"Latin","A carpenter is known by his chips."
"Latin","A cautious man will observe the indications of character which nature reveals in others."
"Latin","A chain is no stronger than its weakest link."
"Latin","A bird is distinguished by its note."
"Latin","A great dowry, a bed full of brambles."
"Latin","A dissimilarity of pursuits dissolves friendship."
"Latin","A good dinner helps deliberation."
"Latin","A good dog deserves a good bone."
"Latin","A good leader makes a good follower."
"Latin","A good name is like sweet smelling ointment."
"Latin","A good orator, but a very bad man."
"Latin","A good thing is esteemed more in its absence than in its enjoyment."
"Latin","A gadding girl is rarely coy."
"Latin","A great city. a great desert."
"Latin","A friend that you buy with presents, will be bought from you."
"Latin","A guest should not remain for ever a guest."
"Latin","A hard knot requires a hard wedge."
"Latin","A hard life but a healthy one."
"Latin","A honey-comb in the mouth of a lion."
"Latin","A horse deprived of his food won't work."
"Latin","A hungry ass needs not a blow."
"Latin","A tree often transplanted does not thrive."
"Latin","A great anvil fears not noise."
"Latin","A few things gained by fraud destroy a fortune otherwise honestly won."
"Latin","A dog is worthy of his food."
"Latin","A dog that has once tasted the flesh cannot be kept from the skin."
"Latin","A dog that will fetch a bone will carry a bone."
"Latin","A dog which has been beaten with a stick is afraid of its shadow."
"Latin","A donkey is known by his ears."
"Latin","A door must be either shut or open."
"Latin","A drop of luck is worth a cask of wisdom."
"Latin","A good beginning ensures a good ending."
"Latin","A faithless wife is shipwreck to a house."
"Latin","A jackdaw among the muses."
"Latin","A fire is nourished by its own ashes."
"Latin","A fisherman once stung will be wiser."
"Latin","A fool repays a salve by a stab, and a stab by a salve."
"Latin","A fool talks of folly."
"Latin","A fox is known by this tail."
"Latin","A fox is not caught twice in the same trap."
"Latin","A friend that will go to the scaffold with you."
"Latin","A drunken man, when asleep, is better left alone."
"Latin","As to what is future, even a bird with a long neck cannot see it, but God only."
"Latin","Avoid gambling."
"Latin","Are you not accustomed to look at home, when you abuse others?"
"Latin","Arms are of little service abroad unless directed by the wisdom of counsellors at home."
"Latin","Arrogance is intolerable."
"Latin","Art has no enemy except ignorance."
"Latin","As a man has lived, so will he die."
"Latin","As numerous as the leaves of the oak, or the waves which wash the island."
"Latin","Any man can steer in a calm."
"Latin","As to the juror or the witness, bribe both."
"Latin","Anxious about the shoe, but disregarding the foot."
"Latin","As you behave towards others, expect that others will behave to you."
"Latin","As you have arranged the thread so must you weave it."
"Latin","Assistance given when it is not required, is as bad as an injury."
"Latin","At once a good general and a stout soldier."
"Latin","At the bar of one's own conscience."
"Latin","Attempt nothing beyond your strength."
"Latin","An inquisitive man is always ill-natured."
"Latin","As the tree is known by its fruit, so is the wicked man by his deeds."
"Latin","An onion will not produce a rose."
"Latin","A sword anointed with honey."
"Latin","An object of pity even to a foe."
"Latin","An old ape hath an old eye."
"Latin","An old fox is not caught in a snare."
"Latin","An old fox is not to be caught in a trap."
"Latin","An old fox understands the trap."
"Latin","An old lion is better than a young ass."
"Latin","Apples taste sweetest when they are going."
"Latin","An old woman would dance."
"Latin","Avoid strife with those in power."
"Latin","An opportunity is found with difficulty and easily lost."
"Latin","An uncalled-for defence becomes a positive accusation."
"Latin","An ungrateful man is a tub full of holes."
"Latin","An unguarded speech reveals the truth."
"Latin","And Modesty, who, when she goes, Is gone for ever."
"Latin","Anger is a transient madness."
"Latin","Antiquity is entitled to respect."
"Latin","An old woman dancing makes a great dust."
"Latin","Believe not that the stream is shallow because its surface is smooth."
"Latin","Avoid bawling in conversation or in play."
"Latin","Bear won't bite bear."
"Latin","Beautiful things are secured with most difficulty."
"Latin","Being but a woman, raise not the sword."
"Latin","Being on sea, sail; being on land, settle."
"Latin","Being warned, let us pursue a better course."
"Latin","Believe him who speaks from experience."
"Latin","Bear no malice."
"Latin","Believe not that all that shines is gold."
"Latin","Beads about the neck, and the devil in his heart."
"Latin","Believe nothing and be on your guard against everything."
"Latin","Believe nothing of what you hear, and only half of what you see."
"Latin","Believe that you have it, and you will have it."
"Latin","Bend the willow while it is young."
"Latin","Benefits grow old betimes, but injuries are long livers."
"Latin","Benefits please like flowers, when they are fresh."
"Latin","An evil gain is equal to a loss."
"Latin","Believe no man more than yourself when you are spoken of."
"Latin","Be mine; I will be thine."
"Latin","Away with grieving, only fit for women."
"Latin","Bad beginnings lead to bad results."
"Latin","Bad fowl, bad egg."
"Latin","Bad head, bad heart."
"Latin","Bad hen, bad egg."
"Latin","Bad is want which is born of plenty."
"Latin","Bashfulness will not avail a beggar."
"Latin","Bear with others and you shall be borne with."
"Latin","Be brave, not ferocious."
"Latin","An industrious life is the best security for food in old age."
"Latin","Be not unmindful of obligations conferred."
"Latin","Be old betimes that thou may'st long be so."
"Latin","Be old betimes, if you wish your old age to last."
"Latin","Be old when young, if you would be young when old."
"Latin","Be on your guard against a silent dog and still water."
"Latin","Be what you appear to be."
"Latin","Be what you would seem to be."
"Latin","Be angry with a murderer, but keep your compassion for his victim."
"Latin","Add not fire to fire."
"Latin","Alas. I suffer from self-inflicted wounds."
"Latin","A woman either loves or hates, there is no third course."
"Latin","A woman hath nine lives like a cat."
"Latin","A word is sufficient for the wise."
"Latin","About everything and something else."
"Latin","Abuse does not invalidate usefulness."
"Latin","According to the nature of his sin shall a man be punished."
"Latin","A wolf often lies concealed in the skin of a lamb."
"Latin","Acting is the forte of all their race."
"Latin","A wise man will make tools of what comes to hand."
"Latin","After clouds sunshine."
"Latin","After darkness comes light."
"Latin","After the manner of Mandrabulus [i.e., going from worse to worse]."
"Latin","Again and again I beg and pray of you to live merrily: should aught distress you, dismiss it from your minds."
"Latin","Aim at a certain issue."
"Latin","Alas for those that get the worst of it."
"Latin","An insolent lord is not a gentleman."
"Latin","Acting in concert, like the oil-merchants in the Velabrum."
"Latin","A well which is drawn from is improved."
"Latin","Better late than never."
"Latin","A trifling pledge of no small friendship."
"Latin","A triple rope is not easily broken."
"Latin","A trouble shared is a trouble halved."
"Latin","A troubled heart is a worm to the bones."
"Latin","A useless pitcher does not get broken."
"Latin","A want of pence stops all your marketing."
"Latin","A wolf's head."
"Latin","A wealthy man can err with impunity."
"Latin","Alexander the Great was but of small stature."
"Latin","A well-beaten path does not always make the right road."
"Latin","A wheel not greased will creak."
"Latin","A whistling woman and a crowing hen are neither fit for God nor men."
"Latin","A white glove often conceals a dirty hand."
"Latin","A wise man should never give his wife too much rein."
"Latin","A wise man turns chance into good fortune."
"Latin","A wise man will make more opportunities than he finds."
"Latin","A weak foundation destroys the work."
"Latin","An elephant does not catch mice."
"Latin","Alas. how much smaller a thing it is to be with others, than to remember thee."
"Latin","Always speak well of the dead."
"Latin","Among the blind a one-eyed man is a king."
"Latin","An aching for wine--a wine-ache."
"Latin","An ancient custom, not of to-day or yesterday."
"Latin","An ape is an ape, though decked with gold."
"Latin","An ape's an ape, a varlet's a varlet, though they be clad in silk and scarlet."
"Latin","All things come not to pass which the mind has conceived."
"Latin","An eel, held by the tail, is not yet caught."
"Latin","All things change, and we change with them."
"Latin","An empty vessel makes the most sound."
"Latin","An evil comes from a neighbouring evil."
"Latin","A woman is to be from her house three times: when she is christened, married and buried."
"Latin","An evil doer abhors the light of day."
"Latin","Men learn oratory by practice."
"Latin","An excess of caution does no harm."
"Latin","An idle youth becomes in age a beggar."
"Latin","An ass is beautiful in the eyes of an ass; a sow in those of a sow; and every race is attractive to itself."
"Latin","All power is impatient of a partner."
"Latin","All are not harpers, who hold the harp."
"Latin","All claim kindred with the prosperous."
"Latin","All clouds are not rain clouds."
"Latin","All flute-players are mad; when once they begin to blow, away goes reason."
"Latin","All for one and one for all."
"Latin","All is in vain unless Providence is with us."
"Latin","All is not false which is publicly reported."
"Latin","All things come to those who wait."
"Latin","All men grieve, and if you ask them the reason why, they cannot tell it."
"Latin","A sword of lead in a scabbard of ivory."
"Latin","All that meal comes not from your own sack."
"Latin","All the hours wound you, the last one kills."
"Latin","All the hours wound, the last one kills."
"Latin","All things are cause for either laughter or weeping."
"Latin","All things are easy that are done willingly."
"Latin","All things are not good for all."
"Latin","All things are possible with God."
"Latin","All lay load on the willing horse."
"Latin","If you snooze, you loose."
"Latin","You have to separate the chaff from the wheat."
"Latin","Impatience does not diminish but augments the evil."
"Latin","Immortal glory waits on talent."
"Latin","Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery."
"Latin","Imitate the snail in deliberation, the bird in execution."
"Latin","Ill-doers, ill-deemers."
"Latin","Ill words are bellows to a slackening fire."
"Latin","Ill weeds grows apace."
"Latin","Ignorance is not privileged by titular degrees."
"Latin","If your conduct be noble, you will be a king."
"Latin","If you would resemble the vulture, look out for a carcase."
"Latin","In avoiding Charybdis, he falls into Scylla."
"Latin","If you strike a goad with your fist, your hand will suffer most."
"Latin","In avoiding that which is evil I have found that which is good."
"Latin","If you sit on a seat, and that seat is a comfortable seat, sit on that seat, and do not leave that seat."
"Latin","If you say that he is guilty of ingratitude, you need say no more."
"Latin","If you desire peace, be ever prepared for war."
"Latin","If you care for the court, the court will bring cares for you."
"Latin","If you cannot drive an ox, drive a donkey."
"Latin","If you be a jester, keep your wit till you have use for it."
"Latin","If you are contented with your lot, you will live wisely."
"Latin","If you always live with those who are lame, you will yourself learn to limp."
"Latin","If there were clouds we should not enjoy the sun."
"Latin","If there is righteousness in the heart, there will be beauty in character."
"Latin","Into every life a little rain must fall."
"Latin","If you wish another to keep your secret, first keep it yourself."
"Latin","In the very act of committing an offence."
"Latin","Hunger and thirst scarcely kill any, But gluttony and drink kill a great many."
"Latin","Instead of a treasure, coals."
"Latin","Instead of a fish he gives you a scorpion."
"Latin","Injuries, when treated with contempt, vanish and have no effect. If you show anger their effect would appear to be acknowledged."
"Latin","Injuries put us on our guard."
"Latin","Injuries destroy affection."
"Latin","Indulge not in boisterous mirth."
"Latin","In vain the net is spread in the sight of the bird."
"Latin","In vain does a man possess property if he makes no use of it."
"Latin","In times of peace we should think of war."
"Latin","In time of sickness man is ever on his best behaviour."
"Latin","Imperceptibly the hours glide on, and beguile us as they pass."
"Latin","In time of prosperity consider how you will bear adversity."
"Latin","If the mountain will not go to Mahomet, let Mahomet go to the mountain."
"Latin","In the snare laid for others is your foot taken."
"Latin","In the midst of our mirth some annoyance always arises to vex us."
"Latin","In the great sea fish is always to be caught."
"Latin","In prosperity you may count on many friends; if the sky becomes overcast you will be alone."
"Latin","In prosperity look out for squalls."
"Latin","In misfortune we need help, not lamentation."
"Latin","In forming new friendships, forget not old friends."
"Latin","In flying from one enemy you encounter another."
"Latin","In every pomegranate a decayed pip is to be found."
"Latin","In courtship a man pursues a woman until she catches him."
"Latin","In chatter a river, in understanding but a single drop."
"Latin","In time of prosperity, friends will be plenty, In time of adversity, not one amongst twenty."
"Latin","I am willing but unable."
"Latin","If there is no wind, row."
"Latin","I regret that I have given what I have."
"Latin","I prefer death to disgrace."
"Latin","I know Simon, and Simon knows me."
"Latin","I kill the boars, but another eats the flesh."
"Latin","I have washed my hands of it."
"Latin","I have other fish to fry."
"Latin","I have lost my labour and my cost."
"Latin","I don't want the cheese, I just want to get out of the trap."
"Latin","I cannot get on with you, or without you."
"Latin","I came, I saw, I won."
"Latin","I shall paint you in your own colours."
"Latin","I bear the laurel-branch."
"Latin","I shall speak facts; but some will say I deal in fiction."
"Latin","I am what you will be, I was what you now are."
"Latin","I am touched but not broken by the waves."
"Latin","I am recommending you to do what I should do myself."
"Latin","I am less concerned about them than about the croaking frogs in the marsh."
"Latin","I am in a place where three ways meet."
"Latin","I am in a fix."
"Latin","Hypocritical piety is double iniquity."
"Latin","Hunger teaches us many a lesson."
"Latin","Hunger sweetens everything but itself."
"Latin","Hunger sharpens anger."
"Latin","Hunger is the best cook."
"Latin","I beggar is not favoured even by his relations."
"Latin","If all men were on an equality, the consequence would be that all must perish: for who would till the ground? who would sow it? Who would plant? who would press wine?."
"Latin","If the mother had never been in the oven, she would not have looked for her daughter there."
"Latin","If the lion's skin falls short, piece it out with that of the fox."
"Latin","If the lion's skill will not do, we must sew on that of the fox."
"Latin","If the head aches all the members of the body suffer."
"Latin","If poor, act with caution."
"Latin","If it pleases you, it does not displease me."
"Latin","If ifs and ands were pots and pans, there'd be no work for tinkers' hands."
"Latin","If I wrestle with a filthy thing, win or lose, I shall be defiled."
"Latin","If he should ask for wine, box his ears."
"Latin","If flesh is not to be had, fish must content us."
"Latin","If doctors fail thee, be these three thy doctors--Rest, cheerfulness, and moderate diet."
"Latin","I see the better course and approve of it; I follow, alas. the worse."
"Latin","If being well bearded brings happiness. a he-goat must be happier than any of us."
"Latin","Into the mouth of a bad dog falls many a good bone."
"Latin","If a man falls in love with a frog, he thinks his frog a very Diana."
"Latin","Idleness ruins the constitution."
"Latin","Idleness is ever the root of indecision."
"Latin","I would rather buy than beg."
"Latin","I would rather be in an apple-tree, than a bad man in distress."
"Latin","I would not purchase it at the price of a rotten nut."
"Latin","I wish I were at home."
"Latin","I wince to win."
"Latin","I too am not powerless, and my weapons strike hard."
"Latin","I speak of garlic, you reply about onions."
"Latin","I simply state what I have heard."
"Latin","If better were within, better would come out."
"Latin","Never tell tales out of school."
"Latin","Neither shall the wave, which has passed on, ever be recalled; nor can the hour, which has once fled by, return again."
"Latin","You use a lantern at noonday."
"Latin","You war against heaven."
"Latin","You will learn by teaching."
"Latin","You will mix what is sacred with what is profane."
"Latin","You will wear the ivy wreath, the victor's meed."
"Latin","You win a few, you lose a few."
"Latin","You would frighten a lion with a mask."
"Latin","You would weave a rope of sand."
"Latin","You have spoilt the wine by adding water to it."
"Latin","You have left the sheep with the wolf for safe custody."
"Latin","You tell a tale to a dead man."
"Latin","Never too old to learn."
"Latin","You teach the dolphin to swim."
"Latin","Never take the antidote before the poison."
"Latin","Never speak in a hurry."
"Latin","Never say, ""die!"""
"Latin","Never refuse a good offer."
"Latin","Never marry for money, but marry where money is."
"Latin","Never malign a friend."
"Latin","Never give a sucker an even break."
"Latin","Never give a child a sword."
"Latin","Never expect your friends to do for you that which you can yourself accomplish."
"Latin","Never descend to vulgarity even in joking."
"Latin","Interfere not in the quarrels of others."
"Latin","You have hit the point exactly."
"Latin","You reap the crop of another."
"Latin","You hold an eel by the tail."
"Latin","You keep making that face and it'll stay that way."
"Latin","You kick against the goad."
"Latin","You know not what the evening may bring with it."
"Latin","You let the cat out of the bag."
"Latin","You made this mess yourself, and now you must eat it all up."
"Latin","You make an elephant of a mouse."
"Latin","You may as well talk to the sea-shore."
"Latin","You may judge a man by his countenance."
"Latin","You may judge of a man by his remarks."
"Latin","You may know a lion by his claw."
"Latin","You trust the guard to a naked or unarmed man."
"Latin","You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone."
"Latin","Neither beg of him who has been a beggar, nor serve him who has been a servant."
"Latin","You reap what you sow."
"Latin","You sail in the same boat."
"Latin","You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus."
"Latin","You seek water from a stone."
"Latin","You seek wool from a donkey."
"Latin","You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all."
"Latin","You should know a man seven years before you stir his fire."
"Latin","You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear."
"Latin","You stick in the same mire."
"Latin","You talk to a deaf man."
"Latin","You talk to a wall."
"Latin","You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd."
"Latin","Merit is often belied by the countenance."
"Latin","Never be too much elated."
"Latin","Money, like a queen, gives rank and beauty."
"Latin","Monday's child is fair of face, Tuesday's child is full of grace, Wednesday's child is full of woe. Thursday's child has far to go, Friday's child is loving and giving, Saturday's child works hard for its living, And a child that's born of the Sabbath day Is fair and wise and good and gay."
"Latin","Moderation in all things."
"Latin","Moderate measures succeed best."
"Latin","Mistakes are to be pardoned."
"Latin","Misfortunes make strange bedfellows."
"Latin","Misfortunes make happiness more sweet when it comes."
"Latin","Misfortunes make friends."
"Latin","Mirth must be indulged in to prepare the mind for more serious matters."
"Latin","Midway between the earth and the starry Olympus."
"Latin","More cost, more worship."
"Latin","Mettle is dangerous in a blind horse."
"Latin","More die by food than famine."
"Latin","Merit consists in action."
"Latin","Mere intentions are not to be esteemed as actions."
"Latin","Men worship the rising, not the setting sun."
"Latin","Men who have no religion, no honour."
"Latin","Men see more of the business of others than of their own."
"Latin","Happy the man who keeps out of strife."
"Latin","An evil conscience breaks many a man's neck."
"Latin","It flies at our approach but follows us as we retire."
"Latin","It early pricks that will he a thorn."
"Latin","It doubles the value of a gift to be well-timed."
"Latin","It does not fall to the lot of all to smell of musk."
"Latin","Mice care not to play with kittens."
"Latin","Music is the handmaid of divinity."
"Latin","Neither beautiful, nor young."
"Latin","Neglect will sooner kill an injury than revenge."
"Latin","Negation proves nothing."
"Latin","Necessity requires no decision."
"Latin","Necessity recognizes no law."
"Latin","Necessity is a strong weapon."
"Latin","Nature without an effort surpasses art."
"Latin","Nature is our mother."
"Latin","Natura genetrix."
"Latin","My turn today, yours tomorrow."
"Latin","My inclination first leads me in one direction, then in the opposite."
"Latin","More blind than the cast-off skin of a serpent."
"Latin","Music provokes love."
"Latin","If the mountain will not come to Mahomet, Mahomet must go to the mountain."
"Latin","Music is the best cure for a sorrowing mind."
"Latin","Music induces more madness in many than wine."
"Latin","Mules help to scratch each other."
"Latin","Much coin, much care."
"Latin","Mountains never unite."
"Latin","Most haste, worst speed."
"Latin","Most bitter are the quarrels of brothers."
"Latin","Morning dreams come true."
"Latin","Morn with her rosy locks dispels the shades of night, and the sun puts to flight the stars, lighting up the world."
"Latin","More naked than the cast-off skin of a serpent."
"Latin","More like than egg to egg."
"Latin","My bark, once struck by the fury of the storm, dreads again to approach the place of danger."
"Latin","He even begrudges the water with which he washes."
"Latin","He flourishes by hereditary renown."
"Latin","He catches the best fish who angles with a golden hook."
"Latin","He catches the wind with a net."
"Latin","He confesses his guilt who flies from his trial."
"Latin","He conquers who conquers himself."
"Latin","He dies before he is old who is wise before his day."
"Latin","He dies twice who perishes by his own hand."
"Latin","He does not show a decent quality even over a good dinner."
"Latin","He does not sing his father's songs."
"Latin","He does not think milk-and-water of himself."
"Latin","He does not think small beer of himself."
"Latin","He assumes a cheerful countenance suppressing the grief which weighs heavily on his heart."
"Latin","He either wheedles by suasive means or terrifies by threats."
"Latin","He argues in vain who argues without means."
"Latin","Hunger and delay raise up anger."
"Latin","If the wind will not serve, take to the oars."
"Latin","He falls into the pit which he himself made."
"Latin","He falls short of his duty to both who tries to serve two masters."
"Latin","He fears neither the earthquake nor the fury of the waves."
"Latin","He fears the very flies."
"Latin","He feigns death like a panther."
"Latin","He fell to-day, I may fall to-morrow."
"Latin","He fights with spirit as well as with the sword."
"Latin","He fishes in troubled waters."
"Latin","He tells me my way, and knows not his own."
"Latin","He drives out one devil by another."
"Latin","He giveth twice who giveth in a trice."
"Latin","He tells a tale of a tub."
"Latin","He talks to the wind."
"Latin","He talks to a dead man."
"Latin","He suffocates me with kindness."
"Latin","He suffers from the same disease."
"Latin","He spends the happiest life who knows nothing."
"Latin","Hard by a river he digs a well."
"Latin","He sings his own praises."
"Latin","Hard cases make bad law."
"Latin","Hard is the path from poverty to renown."
"Latin","Hard things alone will not make a wall."
"Latin","He can carry the ox who has carried the calf."
"Latin","Haste trips up its own heels."
"Latin","He forgets himself."
"Latin","Hatred is a settled anger."
"Latin","Have a care how you irritate the wasps."
"Latin","Have a care not to commence an undertaking of which you may repent."
"Latin","Have a care of a silent dog and a still water."
"Latin","Have confidence, but beware in whom."
"Latin","Having achieved your purpose, seek not to undo what has been done."
"Latin","Having mastered the lesser difficulties, you will more safely venture on greater achievements."
"Latin","Hay is more acceptable to an ass than gold."
"Latin","Hay smells different to lovers and horses."
"Latin","He acts wisely who says little."
"Latin","He alone is wise who can accommodate himself to all the contingencies of life; but the fool contends, and is struggling, like a swimmer, against the stream."
"Latin","Harsh is the voice which would dismiss us, but sweet is the sound of welcome."
"Latin","He is a wise man who accommodates himself to all circumstances."
"Latin","He fishes well who uses a golden hook."
"Latin","He is the architect of his own fortunes."
"Latin","He is separated from the water by a plank."
"Latin","He is not happy who does not realize his happiness."
"Latin","He is looking out for a fig."
"Latin","He is indeed a conqueror who conquers himself."
"Latin","He is hunting for water in the sea."
"Latin","He is his own trumpeter."
"Latin","He is his own enemy."
"Latin","He is full of sweet faults."
"Latin","He is consumed by a vain hope."
"Latin","He is unworthy of life who gives no life to another."
"Latin","He is but a poor husbandman, who sows in sand."
"Latin","He is wise in vain who does not use his wisdom for his own advantage."
"Latin","He is a fool who spares the children after having killed the father."
"Latin","He invokes heaven if a flea bites him."
"Latin","He hath not a farthing left wherewith to buy a rope to hang himself."
"Latin","He has tasted of the lotus."
"Latin","He has sprung up like a mushroom."
"Latin","He has not leisure even to scratch his ears."
"Latin","He has not even a clod of earth left to cover his remains."
"Latin","He has left no means untried."
"Latin","He has eyes in the back of his head."
"Latin","He goes not out of his way that goes to a good inn."
"Latin","He goes beyond the bounds."
"Latin","He is caught in his own snare."
"Latin","He ploughs the land of others, and leaves his own untilled."
"Latin","He gets his wisdom cheaply who gets it at another's cost."
"Latin","He getteth a great deal of credit, who payeth but a small debt."
"Latin","He gives neither too little, nor too much."
"Latin","He gives too late who waits to be asked."
"Latin","He gives well and bountifully who accompanies the gift with a pleasing look."
"Latin","He should have a long spoon who sups with the devil."
"Latin","He shaves close to the skin."
"Latin","He seeks to live like a parasite."
"Latin","He seeks renown by public applause."
"Latin","He says what is wholly irrelevant."
"Latin","He rises early that is hanged before noon."
"Latin","He is the best gentleman, who is the son of his own deserts."
"Latin","He prepares evil for himself who plots mischief for others."
"Latin","Haste manages all things badly."
"Latin","He opens the theatre, and immediately closes it."
"Latin","He moistens the lips, but leaves the palate dry."
"Latin","He makes idle boasting."
"Latin","He makes his home where the living is best."
"Latin","He makes a lion of a mouse."
"Latin","He labours in vain who attempts to please everybody."
"Latin","He labors vainly, who endeavors to please every person."
"Latin","He knows the roads by which he has escaped before."
"Latin","He keeps watch over a good castle who has guarded his own constitution."
"Latin","He is wise, who suits himself to the occasion."
"Latin","He is wise to no purpose, who is not wise for himself."
"Latin","He puts up with small annoyances to gain great results."
"Latin","He who takes the profit ought also to take the labour."
"Latin","Hear all, see all, say nowt, tak' all, keep all, gie nowt, and if tha ever does owt for nowt do it for thysen."
"Latin","Hear all, say nothing."
"Latin","He, who shareth honey with the bear, hath the least part of it."
"Latin","He, who neglects the little, loses the greater."
"Latin","He, who denies his faults, makes no atonement for them."
"Latin","He'd skin a louse, and send the hide and fat to market."
"Latin","He writes with an iron pen."
"Latin","He won't give us so much as the skin."
"Latin","He will embark in litigation, even if a donkey has bitten his dog."
"Latin","He will die before he's old who's wise before his time."
"Latin","He who would speak well should well consider his subject beforehand."
"Latin","Happy's the wooing that is not long a-doing."
"Latin","He who would catch is caught."
"Latin","How changed from what he was."
"Latin","He who oweth is all in the wrong."
"Latin","How quickly with all is a kindness forgotten."
"Latin","How near to guilt without actual guilt."
"Latin","He that flies may fight another day."
"Latin","How much do we resemble that filthy brute the ape."
"Latin","Hate knows no age but death."
"Latin","He who walks with the lame learns how to limp."
"Latin","How great the sufferings we endure."
"Latin","He who waits till an opportunity occurs may wait for ever."
"Latin","He who paints the flower cannot paint its fragrance."
"Latin","He who restrains his anger overcomes his greatest enemy."
"Latin","He who sins when drunk will have to atone for it when sober."
"Latin","He who spares the rod hates his son."
"Latin","He who takes it to himself, he it is who has done the act."
"Latin","Hearing he hears not. He is deaf to entreaty."
"Latin","How many accidents keep human life a rolling."
"Latin","Honourable words by the bushel."
"Latin","Hear both sides of a question."
"Latin","Honesty with poverty is better than ill-gotten wealth."
"Latin","Honey catches more flies than vinegar."
"Latin","Honey catches most flies."
"Latin","Honey cloys."
"Latin","Home is home, as the Devil said when he found himself in the Court of Session."
"Latin","Honour's onerous."
"Latin","Home is home though it's never so homely."
"Latin","Hope gives strength and courage, and saves an otherwise dying man from his grave."
"Latin","Hope is a good breakfast but a bad supper."
"Latin","Hope is our only comfort in adversity."
"Latin","Hope supports men in distress."
"Latin","Hope sustains the farmer."
"Latin","Hopes delayed hang the heart upon tenter-hooks."
"Latin","Honey-tongued, soft spoken, malicious, and unprincipled in conduct."
"Latin","His illness is more mental than bodily."
"Latin","How you come by it no one asks; but wealth you must have."
"Latin","Help by actions, not by words."
"Latin","Help him who is willing to work, not him who shrinks from it."
"Latin","Hercules himself could not cope with two assailants."
"Latin","Hidden valour is as bad as cowardice."
"Latin","Home is home, be it ever so humble."
"Latin","His heart fell down to his heels."
"Latin","Hear, see, and be silent."
"Latin","His presents conceal a baited hook."
"Latin","His tongue says little, but powerful is his right arm."
"Latin","His wit got wings and would have flown, But poverty still kept him down."
"Latin","History repeats itself."
"Latin","Hitherto I gave you credit for having horns."
"Latin","Holyday time will not last forever."
"Latin","Him whom Jove would destroy he first deprives of his reason."
"Latin","He who cannot conceal his sentiments, knows not how to live."
"Latin","He who has received a kindness forgets it; he who has been injured remembers it."
"Latin","He who has plenty of pepper may season his food as he likes."
"Latin","He who has once used deception will deceive again."
"Latin","He who has great strength should use it lightly."
"Latin","He who has come to the mill first does not grind last."
"Latin","He who gives himself airs of importance, exhibits the credentials of impotence."
"Latin","He who follows two hares loses both."
"Latin","He who fears every bramble should not go to the woods."
"Latin","He who envies his admits his inferiority."
"Latin","He who endures with patience is a conqueror."
"Latin","He who does not speak the whole truth is a traitor to truth."
"Latin","He who does not fully speak the truth is a traitor to it."
"Latin","He who does not advance recedes."
"Latin","He who hastens to be rich will not be without fault."
"Latin","He took care to enjoy himself as long as life lasted."
"Latin","He that follows freits, freits will follow him."
"Latin","He that gapeth until he be fed, Well may he gape until he is dead."
"Latin","He that gives bad counsel suffers most by it."
"Latin","He that gives time to resolve, gives time to deny, and warning to prevent."
"Latin","He that has been hurt, fears."
"Latin","He who cannot even manage a yacht asks for a ship of burthen."
"Latin","He thinks nothing right, but what he does himself."
"Latin","He who cannot do what he wishes, must needs do as he can."
"Latin","He travels fastest who travels alone."
"Latin","He unravels the enigmas of the Sphinx."
"Latin","He utters in his language something different from what he ponders in his mind."
"Latin","He who blows his nose too hard makes it bleed."
"Latin","However extravagant men's desires, they hope to see them gratified."
"Latin","He who hastens too much stumbles and falls."
"Latin","He that would live for aye, must eat sage in May."
"Latin","He who lives by medical treatment has but a wretched existence."
"Latin","He who owes nothing fears not the sheriff's officer."
"Latin","He who has tried it, is afraid of it."
"Latin","How to live happily, not luxuriously, is the question."
"Latin","He who makes too much haste gains his end later."
"Latin","He who loves a one-eyed girl thinks that one-eyed girls are beautiful."
"Latin","He who lies on the ground cannot fall."
"Latin","He who knows not how to employ his leisure hath more cares on his mind than the most busy of busily-engaged men."
"Latin","He who is not lucky, let him not go to sea."
"Latin","He who is in love with himself need fear no rival."
"Latin","He who is first in time has the prior right."
"Latin","He who increases knowledge, increases sorrow."
"Latin","He who hath much peas may put the more in the pot."
"Latin","He who hath lost his good name how shall he in future gain his living."
"Latin","Providence assists not the idle."
"Latin","Punishment awaits all offences."
"Latin","Prying with sidelong glance into other people's business. [A busy-body.]"
"Latin","Prudence is the charioteer of all virtues."
"Latin","Prudence availeth more than strength."
"Latin","Prudence and strength combined."
"Latin","Providential aid at a critical moment."
"Latin","Providence tempers the wind to the shorn lamb."
"Latin","Providence provides but short horns for the fierce ox."
"Latin","Providence our herald, no barrier can oppose us."
"Latin","Providence may delay, but punishment will come at length."
"Latin","Providence is better than a rent."
"Latin","Providence is always on the side of the big battalions."
"Latin","Seek not the luxuries of life lest you reap sorrow."
"Latin","Providence crushes pride."
"Latin","Quarrels enhance the pleasures of love."
"Latin","Property is robbery."
"Latin","Promises, like pie crust, are made to be broken."
"Latin","Promises must not fill the place of gifts."
"Latin","Presumption first blinds a man, and then sets him a running."
"Latin","Preserve the guns, but destroy the gunners."
"Latin","Presents more burdensome than profitable."
"Latin","Presents from an enemy must be received with suspicion."
"Latin","Precepts may lead, but examples draw."
"Latin","Precepts invite, but examples drag us to conclusions."
"Latin","Practice is better than theory."
"Latin","Poverty trieth friends."
"Latin","Poverty shows us who are our friends and who our enemies."
"Latin","Providence has not entirely deserted us."
"Latin","Renown is denied to the living."
"Latin","See that in avoiding cinders you step not on burning coals."
"Latin","Science is unlimited in its course; life is short."
"Latin","Scarce things are prized."
"Latin","Satires run faster than panegyrics."
"Latin","Satiety has killed more men than hunger."
"Latin","Safely housed to listen to the storm outside. [To contemplate danger from a safe place.]"
"Latin","Rumour grows easily enough, but is not easily silenced."
"Latin","Rich for yourself, poor for your friends."
"Latin","Reward not a sleeping pilot."
"Latin","Revolutions are not made with rose water."
"Latin","Revere your parents."
"Latin","Revenge is a dish that can be eaten cold."
"Latin","Punishment awaits crime."
"Latin","Respect is greater from a distance."
"Latin","Pursue that course which offers most advantages, habit will soon make it agreeable and easy."
"Latin","Religion must be taught, not forced."
"Latin","Relationship produces envy."
"Latin","Rejoice with those that do rejoice."
"Latin","Reason is absent, when impulse rules."
"Latin","Rear dogs and wolves' cubs to rend you."
"Latin","Real wealth consists not in having, but in not wanting."
"Latin","Ready money is ready medicine."
"Latin","Re-open not a wound once healed."
"Latin","Rare is agreement between beauty and modesty."
"Latin","Quietly, if you can; if not, by any means."
"Latin","Quickly come, quickly go."
"Latin","Quick enough, if safe enough."
"Latin","Poverty is death in another form."
"Latin","Revenge is a confession of pain."
"Latin","One bird in the hand is worth four in the air."
"Latin","One that promised better things."
"Latin","One poison is cured by another."
"Latin","One man's meat is another man's poison."
"Latin","One man's loss is another man's gain."
"Latin","One man yawning makes another yawn too."
"Latin","One man uses his tongue, another his teeth."
"Latin","One man must not fight with two."
"Latin","One man is no man. [A man is nothing without the aid of others.]"
"Latin","One man excels in one thing, another in another."
"Latin","One lawsuit begets another."
"Latin","One house cannot keep two dogs."
"Latin","One hour to-day is worth two to-morrow."
"Latin","Poverty makes a man mean."
"Latin","You would weave a rope of sand."
"Latin","One who would quarrel about goats' wool. [A most captious person.]"
"Latin","A ploughman on his legs is higher than a gentleman on his knees."
"Latin","One beast easily recognizes another."
"Latin","One against whom accusations when made are easily believed."
"Latin","Once in each man's life fortune smiles."
"Latin","Once a priest, always a priest."
"Latin","Once a handmaid never a lady."
"Latin","Once a buffoon, never a good father of a family."
"Latin","Old men's children are rarely of good constitution."
"Latin","Old foxes want no tutors."
"Latin","Old age is in itself a disease."
"Latin","Oil and truth will get uppermost at last."
"Latin","Often there is eloquence in a silent look."
"Latin","Office tests the man."
"Latin","One has woven the thread, another has drawn it forth. [One man invents, another develops the idea.)"
"Latin","Overdoing is doing nothing to the purpose."
"Latin","Seek not the rose which is once lost."
"Latin","Potter envies potter, and smith smith."
"Latin","Poor though in the midst of wealth."
"Latin","Pondering over many things by night."
"Latin","Ponder long before you act."
"Latin","Pleasure often comes from pain."
"Latin","Pleasure is the bait of evil."
"Latin","Pleasure and pain succeed each other."
"Latin","Plague seize the hindmost!"
"Latin","Perhaps you will soon find another, and a fairer, lover."
"Latin","Peace gains a value from discord."
"Latin","Patience overtaxed turns to rage."
"Latin","Pain past is pleasure."
"Latin","One tree won't hold two robins."
"Latin","Our hearts run riot in prosperity."
"Latin","Poverty is no disgrace, but it's a great inconvenience."
"Latin","Opportunity has hair in front, behind she is bald; if you seize her by the forelock, you may hold her, but, if suffered to escape, not Jupiter himself can catch her again."
"Latin","Opportunity makes a thief."
"Latin","Oppose not a hungry man."
"Latin","Opposites attract."
"Latin","Pain of mind is worse than pain of body."
"Latin","Our fears always outnumber our dangers."
"Latin","Pain mingles with pleasure."
"Latin","Our outward actions reveal our hidden intentions."
"Latin","Our pillow should be our counsellor. [Sleep upon an idea.]"
"Latin","Out of nothing nothing comes."
"Latin","Outward appearances assuming the form of virtues."
"Latin","Over no home can the sign be hung: There is no trouble here."
"Latin","One who can do you a deal of good or a deal of harm."
"Latin","Oppression causeth rebellion."
"Latin","That which is good for the back is bad for the head."
"Latin","Seek a wife in your own sphere."
"Latin","Take not the antidote before the poison."
"Latin","Talent and poverty, wealth and stupidity generally dwell together."
"Latin","Talk of the devil and he'll appear."
"Latin","Taught in the same school."
"Latin","Teach an eagle to fly, a dolphin to swim."
"Latin","Test the danger by the Carians. [Practise new experiments on things of little value.]"
"Latin","Thank 'ee for nothing."
"Latin","That country will I call mine which supports me, not that which gave me birth."
"Latin","That is with difficulty preserved which all hanker after."
"Latin","That which I receive, that I return."
"Latin","That which is beyond our reach is nothing to us."
"Latin","Success or ruin."
"Latin","That which is despised is often most useful."
"Latin","Success makes a fool seem wise."
"Latin","That which is his lot to-day may be yours to-morrow."
"Latin","That which is not understood is always marvellous."
"Latin","That which is sweet to some is bitter to others."
"Latin","That which is violent never lasts long."
"Latin","That which is wanting in some respects, may be made up for in others."
"Latin","That which satisfies is enough."
"Latin","That which should feed our children ought not to be given to dogs."
"Latin","That which was bitter to endure may be sweet to remember."
"Latin","That which we obtain too easily, we esteem too lightly."
"Latin","The absent one will not be the heir."
"Latin","The act itself does not constitute a crime, unless the intent be criminal."
"Latin","The antidote before the poison. [To offer excuses before an accusation.]"
"Latin","The assistance of fools only brings injury."
"Latin","That which is deferred is not abandoned."
"Latin","Sorrow follows pleasure."
"Latin","Strike me a light, and I'll light you."
"Latin","Strange sins, strange punishments."
"Latin","Straitened circumstances."
"Latin","Stone dead hath no fellow."
"Latin","Stolen waters are the sweetest."
"Latin","Stand away from a horse's heels."
"Latin","Stagnant waters putrefy."
"Latin","Spur not a free horse to death."
"Latin","Spring succeeds to winter."
"Latin","Spendthrifts are always of necessity greedy and covetous."
"Latin","Speech both conceals and reveals the thoughts of men."
"Latin","Speaking, though speechless, it exercises dominion over the mind. [The power of music.]"
"Latin","Take counsel of your pillow."
"Latin","Sour grapes will ne'er make sweet wine."
"Latin","The axe forgets what the tree remembers."
"Latin","Sorrow dwells on the confines of pleasure."
"Latin","Sorrow brings on premature old age."
"Latin","Sorrow and ill weather come unsent for."
"Latin","Sooner will the wolf take the sheep for a wife."
"Latin","Sooner will the tamarisk bear apples."
"Latin","Sooner will a beetle make honey."
"Latin","Study invites study, idleness produces idleness."
"Latin","Stupid is as stupid does."
"Latin","Submission to one wrong brings on another."
"Latin","Submit to the rule you have yourself laid down."
"Latin","Subtlety set a trap and caught itself."
"Latin","Success alters our manners."
"Latin","Success leads to insolence."
"Latin","Speak not against the dead."
"Latin","Silence is the greatest ornament in a woman."
"Latin","Some sow, others read."
"Latin","Some small spark may yet by chance lie hidden."
"Latin","Soft speeches injure not the mouth of the speaker."
"Latin","So ends all earthly glory."
"Latin","Small things have their own peculiar charm."
"Latin","Small favours conciliate, but great gifts make enemies."
"Latin","Sleep not in time of peril."
"Latin","Sleep is all important."
"Latin","Skill will enable us to succeed in that which sheer force could not accomplish."
"Latin","Sing not of triumph before the victory."
"Latin","Sing before breakfast, cry before night."
"Latin","Sincerity gives wings to power."
"Latin","The autumn of beauty is still beautiful."
"Latin","Silence is wisdom and gets a man friends."
"Latin","Sooner shall earth mount to heaven."
"Latin","Sickness shows us what we are."
"Latin","Shrouds have no pockets."
"Latin","Showy clothes attract most."
"Latin","Short cuts are long ways round."
"Latin","Shit rolls downhill."
"Latin","Shit floats to the top."
"Latin","Shirk work and you will want bread."
"Latin","She is not a modest woman whom common report condemns."
"Latin","Seven hours of sleep is enough for the young and the aged."
"Latin","Servants differ as their masters."
"Latin","Self-praise is no recommendation."
"Latin","Self-love is a mote in every man's eye."
"Latin","Self praise is odious."
"Latin","Silence means consent."
"Latin","The brave man may die, but he will never say ""die."""
"Latin","Strike when the iron is hot."
"Latin","The bad refrain from sin from fear of punishment."
"Latin","The bear wants a tail and cannot be a lion."
"Latin","The bear, he never can prevail To lion it for want of tail."
"Latin","The beginning is half of the whole."
"Latin","The best things are the first to perish."
"Latin","The best things come in small packages."
"Latin","The best things in life are free."
"Latin","The best throw of the dice is to throw them away."
"Latin","The bitch in her haste brings forth blind puppies."
"Latin","The blind man wishes to show the way."
"Latin","The blind would lead the blind."
"Latin","The blossoms in the spring are the fruit in autumn."
"Latin","Some things are better praised by silence than by remark."
"Latin","The chamber of sickness is the chapel of devotion."
"Latin","The avenging gods have their feet clothed in wool."
"Latin","Offer not the right hand of friendship to every one."
"Latin","The conqueror weeps, the conquered is ruined. [Both sides suffer in war or litigation.]"
"Latin","No one in a shabby coat is treated with respect."
"Latin","The conquered dare not open their mouths."
"Latin","The blow falls more lightly when it is anticipated."
"Latin","The cobbler should not go beyond his last. [Meddle not in things which you do not understand.]"
"Latin","The bones for those who come late!"
"Latin","The challenger is beaten."
"Latin","The cause at an end, the effect is removed."
"Latin","The carrion which the eagle has left feeds the crow."
"Latin","The bust of Mercury cannot be cut from every wood."
"Latin","The bust of Mercury cannot be carved in every wood."
"Latin","Sooner could you hide an elephant under your armpit."
"Latin","The cobbler to his last and the gunner to his linstock."
"Latin","Let there be no delay."
"Latin","No protection is so sure as that of innocence."
"Latin","Lions in time of peace; deer in war."
"Latin","Limping justice ne'er will fail To hunt out the longest trail."
"Latin","Limit your inquiry after knowledge."
"Latin","Like prince, like people."
"Latin","Like priest, like people."
"Latin","Like mother, like daughter."
"Latin","Like mistress, like maid."
"Latin","Like likes like."
"Latin","Light griefs can speak, but deeper ones are dumb."
"Latin","Liberate me from that bad fellow, myself."
"Latin","Liberal enough of another man's leather."
"Latin","Little grain have I collected from a mass of chaff."
"Latin","Let us be judged of by our actions."
"Latin","Live near a lame man, and you will soon learn to limp."
"Latin","Let them laugh that win."
"Latin","Let them hate, so that they fear me."
"Latin","Let the ignorant learn, and the learned delight in refreshing the memory."
"Latin","Let the devil never find you unoccupied."
"Latin","Let the buyer beware."
"Latin","Let the buyer be on his guard."
"Latin","Let not your sword be drawn at any man's bidding."
"Latin","Let not your right hand know what your left hand doeth."
"Latin","Let no man refuse to endure that which is common to the lot of all."
"Latin","Let no man be the servant of another, who can be his own master."
"Latin","Let it be well recorded that a harlot is a gate which leads to death."
"Latin","Let it be given to the most meritorious."
"Latin","Let him that earns the bread eat it."
"Latin","Let us go, where fate directs us."
"Latin","Mad drunkenness discloses every secret."
"Latin","Many can drive an ox; few can plough."
"Latin","Many asses have only two legs."
"Latin","Many annoyances surround an aged man."
"Latin","Many an injury comes from a fool's speech."
"Latin","Man's life's a vapor, and full of woes; he cuts a caper, and down he goes."
"Latin","Man's life is a sojourn in a strange land."
"Latin","Man is to man a wolf, man is to man a demon."
"Latin","Man and woman, fire and chaff."
"Latin","Make your experiment on a worthless subject."
"Latin","Make too much haste and pay the penalty."
"Latin","Make hay when the sun shines."
"Latin","Make haste slowly."
"Latin","Little drops produce the shower."
"Latin","Make a virtue of necessity. [Claim credit for compulsory rectitude.]"
"Latin","Let every man have his due."
"Latin","Lust of power is the strongest of all passions."
"Latin","Lovers are madmen."
"Latin","Love would soon perish, unless nourished by Ceres and Bacchus."
"Latin","Love steals on us imperceptibly."
"Latin","Love is the fruit of love."
"Latin","Love is like a shuttlecock."
"Latin","Love is a kind of military service."
"Latin","Love for those too easily won does not last long."
"Latin","Love brooks no delay."
"Latin","Lost time is never found again."
"Latin","Losses make us more cautious."
"Latin","Live your own life, for you will die your own death."
"Latin","Live not beyond your means."
"Latin","Make every bargain clear and plain, that none may afterwards complain."
"Latin","It is unlucky to marry in May."
"Latin","Jackdaw always perches by jackdaw."
"Latin","It's an ill wind that blows nobody any good."
"Latin","It's an ill wind that blows no one any good."
"Latin","It's an ill plan that cannot be changed."
"Latin","It's all grist to the mill."
"Latin","It's a well-known fact, dirt stinks more when stirred."
"Latin","It would puzzle even Apollo to understand it."
"Latin","It would make a man scratch where it doth not itch, To see a man live poor to die rich."
"Latin","It would be clear enough even to a blind man."
"Latin","It rolled like water off a duck's back."
"Latin","It rings, it is empty."
"Latin","It may be said that noisy barrels are easier to carry."
"Latin","Let him take the oars who has learned to row."
"Latin","It is vain to do that by a multitude which a few can accomplish."
"Latin","Jouk and let the jaw go by."
"Latin","It is ungentlemanly to lie; truthfulness becomes the gentleman."
"Latin","It is thou must honour the place, not the place thee."
"Latin","It is the very backbone of wisdom not to trust too hastily."
"Latin","It is the tree that gives its nature to the fruit."
"Latin","It is the season not the soil that brings the crop."
"Latin","It is the perfection of art when no trace of the artist appears."
"Latin","It is the part of a good shepherd to shear his flock, not to skin it."
"Latin","It is the essence of good taste to do that which is consistent with our position."
"Latin","It is the duty of friends mutually to correct each other."
"Latin","It is the duty of a good sportsman to kill game freely, but not kill all."
"Latin","It is sweet and meritorious to die for one's country."
"Latin","It is soon known which trees will bear fruit. [A natural bent for good or evil is easily perceptible in youth.]"
"Latin","It is sheer folly to expect justice from the unprincipled."
"Latin","It is well to buy oil as well as salt. [Different remedies should be at hand when required.]"
"Latin","Kings learn wisdom from associating with wise men."
"Latin","Many promises impair confidence."
"Latin","Let each man do his best."
"Latin","Less of your courtesy, and more of your purse."
"Latin","Less malevolence, or more power to exercise it."
"Latin","Length of time rots a stone."
"Latin","Leave not your staff at home."
"Latin","Learning has sour roots, but pleasant fruits."
"Latin","Laughter abounds in the mouths of fools."
"Latin","Laugh, if you are wise."
"Latin","Laugh with those that laugh."
"Latin","Late repentance is rarely sincere."
"Latin","Late hours and love and wine lead not to moderation in anything."
"Latin","Labour conquers all things."
"Latin","Jokes, which carry injury with them, are never agreeable."
"Latin","Keep quiet and people will think you a philosopher."
"Latin","Let him bear the prize, who has deserved it."
"Latin","Jove but laughs at lover's perjury."
"Latin","Judge of the daughter by the mother."
"Latin","Judge of the statue of Hercules by the size of the foot."
"Latin","Jupiter himself cannot please everybody."
"Latin","Know you not that kings have long arms?"
"Latin","Keep adding little by little and you will soon have a big hoard."
"Latin","Kings love the treason, but not the traitor."
"Latin","Keep the common road, and thou'rt safe."
"Latin","Keep your eye upon the goal."
"Latin","Keep your own fish guts for your own sea maws."
"Latin","Keep your own fish-guts for your own sea-maws."
"Latin","Kings have many ears and many eyes too."
"Latin","Joking must have its proper limit."
"Latin","Justice is exercised in the proper prevention, rather than in the severe punishment, of crime."
"Latin","No man commands ably unless he has himself obeyed discipline."
"Latin","The corruption of the best things makes the worst."
"Latin","No one loves another better than himself."
"Latin","The goodwill accompanying the gift is the best portion of it."
"Latin","No one ever suddenly reached the height of vice."
"Latin","No matter her past, when a chambermaid marries a lord she becomes a lady."
"Latin","No man will feed on herbs when meat is to be had."
"Latin","No man should be a witness in his own cause."
"Latin","No man is so rich as to say, ""I have enough!"""
"Latin","No man is impatient with his creditors."
"Latin","No man is his craft's master the first day."
"Latin","No man is faultless."
"Latin","No man is contented with his lot in this life."
"Latin","Never take the antidote before the poison."
"Latin","No man grieves long unless by his own fault."
"Latin","Nobility without wealth is more worthless than the seaweed which the tide has left."
"Latin","No man can think well of himself who does not think well of others."
"Latin","No man can swim ashore and carry his baggage with him."
"Latin","No man can call again yesterday."
"Latin","No man can be happy without a friend, or be sure of his friend till he is unhappy."
"Latin","No man acquires perfection all at once."
"Latin","No horse is so good, but that he will at times stumble."
"Latin","No gains without pains."
"Latin","No gain is so certain as that which proceeds from the economical use of what you already have."
"Latin","No gain is as certain as that which proceeds from the economical use of what you already have."
"Latin","No day should pass without something being done."
"Latin","No day is wholly productive of evil."
"Latin","Never too old to learn."
"Latin","Many can drive oxen, few can plough."
"Latin","No man has a worse friend than he brings with him from home."
"Latin","Nothing is more humiliating than when a reproach recoils on the head or him who utters it."
"Latin","Of no worldly good can the joy be perfect, unless it is shared by a friend."
"Latin","Of no sort of good to himself, or to anybody else."
"Latin","Obstinately to justify a fault is a second fault."
"Latin","Observe decorum even in your sport."
"Latin","Obey orders, if you break owners."
"Latin","Obedience is the mother of happiness."
"Latin","O ancient house, by what a different master are you presided over!"
"Latin","Now my resources are reduced to a narrow compass."
"Latin","Now it rains, and again the sun shines forth brightly in the heavens."
"Latin","Now a layman, to-morrow a clerk."
"Latin","Novelty always appears handsome."
"Latin","Nourish the whelps of a wolf!"
"Latin","Nourish not a lion's whelp."
"Latin","No sooner said than done."
"Latin","Nothing can be said which has not been said already."
"Latin","Never speak in a hurry."
"Latin","Not even a drop is left."
"Latin","Not to advance is to recede."
"Latin","Not to disturb that which is at rest."
"Latin","Not words but knocks."
"Latin","Nothing, however small, is to be irritated."
"Latin","Nothing bears a stronger resemblance to a madman than a man when drunk."
"Latin","Nothing prevails against wealth."
"Latin","Nothing can exist long without occasional rest."
"Latin","Nothing comes of nothing."
"Latin","Nothing dries up more quickly than a tear."
"Latin","Nothing is grievous which necessity enjoins."
"Latin","Nothing is more foolish than to dabble in too many things."
"Latin","Nobility of conduct is a greater recommendation than nobility of birth."
"Latin","Nothing answers worse than too high farming."
"Latin","Mere intentions are not to be esteemed as actions."
"Latin","More blind than the cast-off skin of a serpent."
"Latin","Money, like a queen, gives rank and beauty."
"Latin","Monday's child is fair of face, Tuesday's child is full of grace, Wednesday's child is full of woe. Thursday's child has far to go, Friday's child is loving and giving, Saturday's child works hard for its living, And a child that's born of the Sabbath day Is fair and wise and good and gay."
"Latin","Moderation in all things."
"Latin","Moderate measures succeed best."
"Latin","Mistakes are to be pardoned."
"Latin","Misfortunes make strange bedfellows."
"Latin","Misfortunes make happiness more sweet when it comes."
"Latin","Misfortunes make friends."
"Latin","Mirth must be indulged in to prepare the mind for more serious matters."
"Latin","Midway between the earth and the starry Olympus. [In a quandary. In a fix.]"
"Latin","Mice care not to play with kittens."
"Latin","Never tell tales out of school."
"Latin","Merit consists in action."
"Latin","More like than egg to egg."
"Latin","Men worship the rising, not the setting sun."
"Latin","Men who have no religion, no honour."
"Latin","Men see more of the business of others than of their own."
"Latin","Men learn oratory by practice. [Practice in speaking makes us eloquent.]"
"Latin","Men in office must work hard."
"Latin","Men are bound by words, bulls' horns by ropes."
"Latin","Marry a person in your own rank in life."
"Latin","Married life without children is as the day deprived of the sun's rays."
"Latin","Marriage is a lottery."
"Latin","March comes in like a lion, and goes out like a lamb."
"Latin","Many words, little credit."
"Latin","Many will hate you if you love yourself."
"Latin","Of two evils the least is always to be chosen."
"Latin","Mettle is dangerous in a blind horse."
"Latin","Nature without an effort surpasses art."
"Latin","Never say, ""die!"""
"Latin","Never marry for money, but marry where money is."
"Latin","Never malign a friend."
"Latin","Never give a sucker an even break."
"Latin","Never give a child a sword."
"Latin","Never expect your friends to do for you that which you can yourself accomplish."
"Latin","Never descend to vulgarity even in joking."
"Latin","Never be too much elated."
"Latin","Neither beg of him who has been a beggar, nor serve him who has been a servant."
"Latin","Neither beautiful, nor young."
"Latin","Neglect will sooner kill an injury than revenge."
"Latin","Negation proves nothing. [Mere opposition to a theory does not commit you to anything.]"
"Latin","Necessity requires no decision."
"Latin","More cost, more worship."
"Latin","Mules help to scratch each other. [The bad commend each other.]"
"Latin","Many fall by the sword, but more from gluttony."
"Latin","More naked than the cast-off skin of a serpent."
"Latin","Morn with her rosy locks dispels the shades of night, and the sun puts to flight the stars, lighting up the world."
"Latin","Morning dreams come true."
"Latin","Most bitter are the quarrels of brothers."
"Latin","Necessity recognizes no law."
"Latin","Mountains never unite. [Haughty people rarely fraternize.]"
"Latin","Necessity is a strong weapon."
"Latin","Music induces more madness in many than wine."
"Latin","Music is the handmaid of divinity."
"Latin","Music provokes love."
"Latin","My inclination first leads me in one direction, then in the opposite."
"Latin","Nature is our mother."
"Latin","More die by food than famine."
"Latin","Most haste, worst speed."
"Latin","What I do against my will cannot be said to be my own act."
"Latin","When you bargain with a fox, beware of tricks."
"Latin","What the eye rarely sees, the heart soon despises."
"Latin","What raging rashly is begun, Challengeth shame before half done."
"Latin","What people in distress most wish for, they most readily believe."
"Latin","What need has a blind man of a looking glass?"
"Latin","What limit is there in love?"
"Latin","What is viler than to be laughed at?"
"Latin","What is useful cannot be base."
"Latin","What is there that love will not achieve?"
"Latin","What is permitted us we least desire."
"Latin","What is not understood [explained] by what is less understood. [To make confusion still more confounded.]"
"Latin","What is new is esteemed, but what is in every day use ceases to afford interest."
"Latin","What we possess is always beautiful."
"Latin","What is an exalted position to a low fellow but a golden ring in a swine's snout?"
"Latin","What will not performance achieve?"
"Latin","What has this to do with the matter?"
"Latin","What has benefited one has destroyed others."
"Latin","What harm is there in making a trial?"
"Latin","What everybody says must be true."
"Latin","What does the tortoise care for flies?"
"Latin","Wear not out your welcome."
"Latin","Wear not boots too big for your feet."
"Latin","Wealth, like an index, reveals the character of men."
"Latin","Wealth not acquired by our own labours, but inherited."
"Latin","Wealth makes worship."
"Latin","Wealth lightens not the heart and care of man."
"Latin","Wealth is protected and poverty is assisted by concord."
"Latin","We trust what we see rather than what we hear."
"Latin","What is lighter than a feather? Dust. What lighter than dust? Wind. What lighter than the wind? A harlot. What lighter than a harlot? Nothing."
"Latin","When I did well, I heard it never; when I did ill, I heard it ever."
"Latin","Truth is great and will prevail."
"Latin","When the tree is fallen, every one goeth to it with his hatchet."
"Latin","When the tree is fallen every one runs to it with his axe."
"Latin","When the tale of bricks is doubled, then Moses makes his appearance."
"Latin","When the soul hungers, even bitter things taste sweet."
"Latin","When the journey is finished to lay up provisions for the journey. [Avaricious old age.]"
"Latin","When the head acheth, all the body is the worse."
"Latin","When the head aches, all the members suffer with it."
"Latin","When the battle is over you make your appearance."
"Latin","When spherical bodies can unite and embrace, then there will be friendship amongst the avaricious."
"Latin","When rogues fallout, many a secret is revealed."
"Latin","When one will not, two cannot quarrel."
"Latin","What though his hair be gray, his mind is no less vigorous than ever."
"Latin","When once at sea, do not long to be on shore. [Be satisfied with your calling in life.]"
"Latin","We shall never be younger."
"Latin","When hunger is appeased we can preach the merits of fasting."
"Latin","When fortune deserts us, our friends are nowhere."
"Latin","When an observation by joke is true, it is out of place and ill-natured."
"Latin","When a man's mode of life is contemptible, it follows that his preaching is treated with contempt."
"Latin","Whatever you undertake let it be proportioned to your powers."
"Latin","Whatever you do, do with all your might."
"Latin","What's done is done."
"Latin","What's done can't be mended."
"Latin","What's bred in the bone will never out of the flesh."
"Latin","What's bred in the bone will come out in the flesh."
"Latin","What! you a hare, and ask for hare-pie!"
"Latin","What you've never had you never miss."
"Latin","What you think of yourself is much more important than what others think of you."
"Latin","When one dog barks, another will follow suit."
"Latin","Valour even in an enemy is worthy of praise."
"Latin","We all refer to that of which we know most."
"Latin","War gives no opportunity for repeating a mistake."
"Latin","War appears pleasant to those who have never experienced it."
"Latin","Want all lose all."
"Latin","Walk softly but carry a big stick."
"Latin","Walk on your own lands."
"Latin","Virtue, which parleys, is near a surrender."
"Latin","Virtue our leader, fortune our companion."
"Latin","Virtue and valour rejoice in being put to the test."
"Latin","Viper produces viper."
"Latin","Vices creep into our hearts under the name of virtue."
"Latin","Vice is nourished by concealment."
"Latin","We sow the wind, and reap the whirlwind."
"Latin","Vengeance is slow, but stern."
"Latin","We are the authors of our own disasters."
"Latin","Valour acquires strength by union."
"Latin","Use not coercive measures against those in authority."
"Latin","Unless what we do is useful, glory is vain."
"Latin","Unequalled in the smallest matters."
"Latin","Under the rose. [That which is said sub rosa is not intended to be repeated.]"
"Latin","Unaccustomed to wear them, he displays the breeches he has on to every one he meets."
"Latin","Unable to keep yourself, you are keeping dogs."
"Latin","Two eyes can see more than one."
"Latin","Turn of phrase."
"Latin","Turn it inside and out."
"Latin","Try to deserve the reputation you enjoy."
"Latin","Truth lies at the bottom of a well."
"Latin","The good fortunes of life fall to the lot even of the base."
"Latin","Venture a small fish to catch a great one."
"Latin","We hate whom we have injured."
"Latin","When you can avoid it, never seek strife."
"Latin","We receive nothing with so much reluctance as advice."
"Latin","We perish by permitted things."
"Latin","We pay when old for the excesses of youth."
"Latin","We pardon faults in youth."
"Latin","We never profit by the gifts of the wicked."
"Latin","We need not friends if Providence smiles on us."
"Latin","We must not expect everything, everywhere, and from everybody."
"Latin","We must live as we can, not as we would wish."
"Latin","We lose the certain things, while we seek the uncertain ones."
"Latin","We live more by fashion than common sense."
"Latin","We lessen our wants by lessening our desires."
"Latin","We learn the value of things more in their loss than in their enjoyment."
"Latin","We are born; we die."
"Latin","We easily believe that which we hope for."
"Latin","We should trust more to our eyesight than to our ears."
"Latin","We are too busy mopping the floor to turn off the faucet."
"Latin","We become wiser as we grow older."
"Latin","We benefit by affliction."
"Latin","We can accustom ourselves to anything."
"Latin","We judge of the present from the past. [The boy and the wolf.]"
"Latin","We covet not that of the existence of which we are ignorant."
"Latin","We have all been fools in our time."
"Latin","We easily give advice to others."
"Latin","We expiate in old age the follies of our youth."
"Latin","We find much ingratitude, and create more."
"Latin","We give and take in turn."
"Latin","We hate the man whom we have wronged."
"Latin","We are not disposed to study much after heavy meals."
"Latin","We conquer and are conquered in our turn."
"Latin","You compare the bee to the grasshopper!"
"Latin","When the war is over then comes help."
"Latin","You are needlessly alarmed."
"Latin","You are talking to a stone."
"Latin","You are teaching a fish to swim."
"Latin","You are teaching iron to swim!"
"Latin","You are what you eat."
"Latin","You ask the path when the high road is before your eyes."
"Latin","You attack a horned animal."
"Latin","You bring your own evil deeds to light."
"Latin","You can never consider that as your own which can be changed."
"Latin","You can't love Thetis and Galatea at the same time."
"Latin","You cannot catch a fox with a bait."
"Latin","You are looking for wings in a wolf. [You hunt for impossibilities.]"
"Latin","You cannot have all you wish for."
"Latin","You are comparing a rose to an anemone."
"Latin","You compare the moorhen to the I swan."
"Latin","You compare the tortoise to the hare."
"Latin","You count the sand."
"Latin","You give hay to the dog and bones to the ass."
"Latin","You give the wolf the wether to keep."
"Latin","You have got your feet out of the mire."
"Latin","You have hit the nail on the head."
"Latin","You have hit the point exactly."
"Latin","You have left the sheep with the wolf for safe custody."
"Latin","You have spoilt the wine by adding water to it."
"Latin","You have to separate the chaff from the wheat."
"Latin","You hold an eel by the tail. [You are dealing with a slippery fellow.]"
"Latin","You keep making that face and it'll stay that way."
"Latin","You cannot catch old birds with chaff."
"Latin","Women when injured are generally not easily appeased."
"Latin","Wine carries no rudder."
"Latin","Wine gladdeneth the heart of man."
"Latin","Wine in the bottle does not quench thirst."
"Latin","Wine is given to bring mirth not drunkenness."
"Latin","Wine is one thing, drunkenness another."
"Latin","Wine is the mirror of the mind."
"Latin","Wine mars beauty and destroys the freshness of youth."
"Latin","Winter is summer's heir."
"Latin","Winter never rots in the sky."
"Latin","Wisdom does not consist in dress."
"Latin","With one hand he scratches you, and with the other he strikes you."
"Latin","With the idle it is always holy day time."
"Latin","You are more shifting than a potter's wheel."
"Latin","Without favour, art is like a windmill without wind."
"Latin","You make an elephant of a mouse."
"Latin","Women's jars breed men's wars."
"Latin","Words butter not parsnips."
"Latin","Words may either conceal character or reveal it."
"Latin","Work makes the workman."
"Latin","Works have a stronger voice than words."
"Latin","Worthless is the advice of fools."
"Latin","Would you shear a donkey for wool!"
"Latin","Would you take water to the frog?"
"Latin","Wrongdoers and assenting parties are equally punishable."
"Latin","Years roll on."
"Latin","Yield to divine power."
"Latin","You are but sowing in sand."
"Latin","You are carrying owls to Athens."
"Latin","Without divine assistance we can achieve nothing."
"Latin","While between two stools my tail go to the ground."
"Latin","Wickedness and malice only require an opportunity."
"Latin","Why wear out your great coat in summer?"
"Latin","Whose life is as lightning, his words are as thunder."
"Latin","Whose interest was it? To whose prejudice was it? [Who might expect to derive benefit, or injury, from a crime committed?]"
"Latin","Who would avoid all strife, should be a bachelor."
"Latin","Who timidly requests invites refusal."
"Latin","Who loses honor can lose nothing else."
"Latin","Who aims at things beyond his reach, the greater will be his fall."
"Latin","Whilst standing he holds one opinion, whilst sitting another."
"Latin","While we would catch we are caught."
"Latin","While we draw we are drawn. [Mutual attraction.]"
"Latin","While we discuss matters, the opportunity passes by."
"Latin","You know not what the evening may bring with it."
"Latin","While life lasts let us enjoy it."
"Latin","Win by persuasion not by force."
"Latin","While avoiding the smoke I have fallen into the flame."
"Latin","Whether he will or no."
"Latin","Wherever a man dwells, he shall be sure to have a thorn-bush near his door."
"Latin","Where there is wealth, friends abound."
"Latin","Where there is content there is abundance."
"Latin","Where the love is, thither turns the eye."
"Latin","Where the honey, there the bees."
"Latin","Where the carcass is, there shall the eagles be gathered together."
"Latin","Where the carcase is, there will the vultures be."
"Latin","Where freedom is, there shall my country be."
"Latin","Where curiosity is not the purveyor, detraction will soon be starved."
"Latin","Where bees are, there is honey."
"Latin","Where art is displayed truth does not appear."
"Latin","While there is life there is hope."
"Latin","You talk to a deaf man."
"Latin","Truth conquers all things."
"Latin","You may as well talk to the sea-shore."
"Latin","You may judge a man by his countenance."
"Latin","You may judge of a man by his remarks."
"Latin","You may know a lion by his claw."
"Latin","You must howl with wolves if you wish to be one of their herd."
"Latin","You must rave with the insane, unless you would be left alone."
"Latin","You reap the crop of another."
"Latin","You reap what you sow."
"Latin","You sail in the same boat. [You are in the same danger.]"
"Latin","You seek for fruit in the garden of Tantalus."
"Latin","You seek water from a stone."
"Latin","You seek wool from a donkey!"
"Latin","Wickedness with beauty is the devil's hook baited."
"Latin","You use a lantern at noonday."
"Latin","You let the cat out of the bag."
"Latin","You would frighten a lion with a mask!"
"Latin","You win a few, you lose a few."
"Latin","You will wear the ivy wreath, the victor's meed."
"Latin","You will mix what is sacred with what is profane."
"Latin","You should eat plentifully of the flesh of the turtle or not at all."
"Latin","You war against heaven."
"Latin","You should only believe half of what you see, and none of which you hear."
"Latin","It is safer to irritate a dog than an old woman."
"Latin","You trust the guard to a naked or unarmed man."
"Latin","He opens the theatre, and immediately closes it. [He raises expectation, and crushes it at the same time.]"
"Latin","You teach the dolphin to swim!"
"Latin","You talk to a wall!"
"Latin","Wider ears and a short tongue."
"Latin","You will learn by teaching."
"Latin","The old cask tastes of what the new cask held."
"Latin","The swift are overtaken by the slow."
"Latin","The pleasures of the mighty are the tears of the poor."
"Latin","The pleasures of love are enhanced by injuries."
"Latin","The plan executed, reason comes to our assistance!"
"Latin","The people want to be deceived."
"Latin","The penalty attaching to evil deeds should be thought of in time."
"Latin","The passing hour is sometimes a mother, sometimes a stepmother."
"Latin","The parrot utters one cry, the quail another."
"Latin","The ox when most weary is most surefooted."
"Latin","The ox in a strange stall often casts a longing look towards the door."
"Latin","The owl sings to the nightingale."
"Latin","The owl has one note, the crow another."
"Latin","The position in which we were before the war."
"Latin","The old monkey is caught last."
"Latin","The post of honor is the post of danger."
"Latin","The names of fools are always written on walls."
"Latin","The mouse is caught in the trap."
"Latin","The most pleasant cruise is near the land; the most inviting walk near the sea."
"Latin","The more you give in, the more you have to give in."
"Latin","The more we have, the more we want."
"Latin","The more they have, the more they want."
"Latin","The misfortunes to which we are accustomed affect us less deeply."
"Latin","The misfortune of the foolish is a warning to the wise."
"Latin","The mind when unoccupied knows not what it wants."
"Latin","The mind is best taught with a sharp whip."
"Latin","The miller sees not every wave that flows."
"Latin","The mill cannot grind with the water that is past."
"Latin","The mice have taken themselves off."
"Latin","The old parrot does not mind the stick."
"Latin","The revenge of an idiot is without mercy."
"Latin","Truth is violated by a lie or by silence."
"Latin","The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak."
"Latin","The sow has been greeted with music."
"Latin","The smoke of our own country is brighter than fire abroad."
"Latin","The skin of a lion covering some mongrel beast."
"Latin","The silver is become dross."
"Latin","The silence resulting from absence has destroyed many a friendship."
"Latin","The shirt is nearer than the coat."
"Latin","The shadow for the substance."
"Latin","The same failings attach not to all."
"Latin","The rough manners of the vulgar are contagious."
"Latin","The Roman conquered by delay. [Fabius Cunctator.]"
"Latin","The pleasures we enjoy are lost by coveting more."
"Latin","The reward of a thing rightly done is to have done it."
"Latin","The magpie is competing with the nightingale!"
"Latin","The reserve are engaged."
"Latin","The remembrance of past pleasures adds to present sorrows."
"Latin","The real world is a special case."
"Latin","The real nettle will sting early."
"Latin","The razor against the grindstone."
"Latin","The rat betrayed by his own track perishes."
"Latin","The rack can extort a false confession from the innocent."
"Latin","The race is not always to the swift."
"Latin","The rabble, as of old, truckles to success, and hates a favourite in disgrace."
"Latin","The rabble is not influenced by reason, but blind impulse."
"Latin","The quoit attracts them more than philosophy."
"Latin","The provoking pertinacity of a fly."
"Latin","The prolonged visit of no guest is pleasant."
"Latin","The reward of silence is certain."
"Latin","The face is the portrait of the mind; the eyes, its informers."
"Latin","The gnat trusting itself to the flame is singed."
"Latin","The gladiator seeks advice, when in the very lists."
"Latin","The girl is more inviting who smells of wild thyme than she who smells of musk."
"Latin","The gifts of fortune (windfalls) do not always benefit us."
"Latin","The fox may grow gray, but never good."
"Latin","The fox loves cunning, the wolf covets the lamb, and a woman longs for praise."
"Latin","The force which a body at rest exercises on a body in motion impinging upon it. [Stolid immobility or masterly inactivity.]"
"Latin","The force of anger is broken by a soft answer."
"Latin","The fool would teach the learned!"
"Latin","The fish requires salt! [Derisively, the sea abounding with salt.]"
"Latin","The field should be poorer than the farmer. [It is useless for a man to attempt farming without capital.]"
"Latin","The fear of death is worse than death itself."
"Latin","The memory of a benefit vanisheth, but the remembrance of an injury sticketh fast in the heart."
"Latin","The Fates will not permit it."
"Latin","The gods send nuts to those who have no teeth."
"Latin","The face is the index to the mind."
"Latin","The excess of mirth leads to tears."
"Latin","The evil is lessened when it is seen beforehand."
"Latin","The early morn favours study."
"Latin","The doctor is to be feared more than the disease."
"Latin","The diseases of the mind are either caused or cured by the power of music."
"Latin","The dead are the best counsellors."
"Latin","The crow is a pretty bird when the jackdaw is not present."
"Latin","The credit got by a lie lasts only till the truth comes out."
"Latin","The crab would catch the hare!"
"Latin","The cowl does not make the monk."
"Latin","The course of true love never did run smooth."
"Latin","The course of a river is not to be altered. [We cannot alter a natural bent.]"
"Latin","The favour of the great is not lasting."
"Latin","The harp dispels care."
"Latin","The tale is marred in the telling."
"Latin","The madness of one makes many mad."
"Latin","The law of requital of injury by injury."
"Latin","The laughter, the tears, and the song of a woman are equally deceptive."
"Latin","The labour is in itself a pleasure."
"Latin","The laborer is worthy of his hire."
"Latin","The knowledge of sin is the beginning of salvation."
"Latin","The intemperate die young, and rarely en joy old age."
"Latin","The hour is passing."
"Latin","The hindmost dog may catch the hare."
"Latin","The highest tree hath the greatest fall."
"Latin","The highest spoke in fortune's wheel may soon turn lowest."
"Latin","The highest seat will not hold more than one."
"Latin","The gods assist the industrious."
"Latin","The habits of our youth accompany us in our old age."
"Latin","The means were wanting, not the will."
"Latin","The good is the enemy of the best."
"Latin","Wine brings forth the truth."
"Latin","The grape is not ripened by the rays of the moon."
"Latin","The grasshopper is dear to the grasshopper, the ant loves the ant."
"Latin","The hedge is trodden down where it seems to lean. [Vis., at its weakest point.]"
"Latin","The greater the fool, the greater his insolence."
"Latin","The hatred of knaves is to be preferred to their company."
"Latin","The half is better than the whole."
"Latin","The hand often travels to the part where the pain is."
"Latin","The hand that gives gathers."
"Latin","The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world."
"Latin","The happier the time, the more quickly it passes."
"Latin","The gods sell all things for labour."
"Latin","The great elephant of India cares not for a gnat."
"Latin","Time reveals all things."
"Latin","The swans will not sing till the jackdaws are quiet."
"Latin","To him that hath much, shall much be given."
"Latin","To have no wants, is money."
"Latin","To have been silent never does harm, but to have spoken does."
"Latin","To every one who doth ask, but not everything he doth ask."
"Latin","To do a favour slowly is to begrudge it; to consent slowly shows unwillingness."
"Latin","To condemn by a cutting laugh comes easily to all."
"Latin","To conceal disease is fatal."
"Latin","To be loved, be loveable."
"Latin","To be in love and act wisely is scarcely granted to a god."
"Latin","'Tis wisdom sometimes to seem a fool."
"Latin","'Tis gold Which makes the true man killed, and saves the thief; Nay, sometimes hangs both thief and true man; what Can it not do, and undo?"
"Latin","To obtain that which is just we must ask that which is unjust."
"Latin","Time softens animosity."
"Latin","To relax the mind is to lose it."
"Latin","Time has a forelock, but is bald behind."
"Latin","Time flies."
"Latin","Time flies with hasty step."
"Latin","Tide and time wait for no man."
"Latin","Thus years glide by."
"Latin","Through dangers to distinction."
"Latin","Three women will make as much noise as a market."
"Latin","Though physician to others, yet himself full of sores."
"Latin","Though malice may darken truth, it cannot put it out."
"Latin","Though living, dead for all useful purposes."
"Latin","Those who see the faults of others, and see not their own, are wise for others and fools for themselves."
"Latin","Those who do a thing are consenting parties."
"Latin","Those who attack, though they die in the attempt."
"Latin","'Tis folly to love fetters, though they be of gold."
"Latin","Too much care may be as bad as downright negligence."
"Latin","Truth becomes lost in the turmoil of arguments."
"Latin","Trust not your all in one ship."
"Latin","Trust not a woman, even when dead. [She may feign death.]"
"Latin","Trust not a sword in the hands of a boy."
"Latin","Trust no one, until you have eaten a peck of salt with him."
"Latin","True friends are tested in adversity."
"Latin","Troy is a thing of the past."
"Latin","Trifling at an end, now let us go to the point."
"Latin","Trifles often lead to serious results."
"Latin","Treat your friends as if hereafter they will become your enemies, and your enemies as if they will become your friends."
"Latin","Treat everything of this world as mere vanity."
"Latin","Too much wine will make a sane man mad."
"Latin","To know nothing is the happiest life."
"Latin","Too much consulting confounds."
"Latin","This grief will prove a blessing."
"Latin","Too much care does more harm than good."
"Latin","Too late for the fair."
"Latin","Too late do I take up the shield after the wound."
"Latin","To-morrow we will credit it, not to-day."
"Latin","To-morrow is the pupil of to-day."
"Latin","To win a war quickly takes long preparation."
"Latin","To whom is he any good, if he is no good to himself?"
"Latin","To understand a stammerer, you ought to stammer yourself."
"Latin","To the pure all things are pure."
"Latin","To the ass, or the sow, their own offspring appears the fairest in creation."
"Latin","To speak kindly does not hurt the tongue."
"Latin","To silence another, first be silent yourself."
"Latin","To remove the hairs from a horse's tail, one by one must be plucked out. [Small persevering efforts succeed, when violent measures would fail.]"
"Latin","Too much of a thing nauseates."
"Latin","There is a black sheep in every flock."
"Latin","There is no remedy against the bite of a secret slanderer."
"Latin","There is no good but contains some evil; no evil but contains some good."
"Latin","There is no departing from the words of the law."
"Latin","There is no accounting for tastes."
"Latin","There is more to be feared from the doctor than the disease."
"Latin","There is danger when a dog has once tasted flesh."
"Latin","There is always a first time."
"Latin","There is a time when nothing should be said, there is a time when some things may be said. but there is indeed no time in which everything can be said."
"Latin","There is a time for everything."
"Latin","There is a time for all things."
"Latin","There is a time and place for everything."
"Latin","There is a skeleton in every house."
"Latin","Those who are once found to be bad are presumed to be so for ever."
"Latin","There is a good time coming."
"Latin","There is no wise response to a foolish remark."
"Latin","There grows not the herb, which can protect against the power of death."
"Latin","The workmanship surpassed the material."
"Latin","The work tests the workman."
"Latin","The wolf dances round the well. [Longing for the water he cannot reach.]"
"Latin","The wolf changes his hair, but not his nature."
"Latin","The wind will let us neither sail nor stay."
"Latin","The whisperer's tongue is worse than serpent's venom."
"Latin","The warnings of age are the weapons of youth."
"Latin","The toothless man envies those who can eat well."
"Latin","The title is one thing, the contents another."
"Latin","The times are changing; we too are changing with them."
"Latin","The test of merit is success."
"Latin","The tears of an heir are laughter under a mask."
"Latin","There is a season for all things."
"Latin","They limit their expenditure where it is not needed, and are ever lavish of that of which they should be sparing."
"Latin","The counsel of the aged is sound."
"Latin","Think late, suffer soon."
"Latin","Think first and speak afterwards."
"Latin","Things rumoured lessen in importance as they assume reality."
"Latin","Things past cannot be recalled."
"Latin","Things hatched in discord are not speedily terminated."
"Latin","Things hardly attained are the longer retained."
"Latin","Things coming from afar are most esteemed."
"Latin","Things beyond our reach are not worth our consideration."
"Latin","Thieves dread a commotion."
"Latin","Thief knows thief, and wolf knows wolf."
"Latin","They who are thirsty drink in silence."
"Latin","They understand each other, like thieves at a fair."
"Latin","There is no way to make money so certain as to save what you have."
"Latin","They cease to be friends who dwell afar off."
"Latin","Those who are conscious of their own iniquity, suspect others."
"Latin","There is nothing more telling than wit."
"Latin","There is nothing so intolerable as a fortunate fool."
"Latin","There is nothing to be gained by buying inferior goods."
"Latin","There's death in the pot."
"Latin","They marry under bad auspices who marry in the month of May."
"Latin","They can do least who boast loudest."
"Latin","They look at the greens, but steal the bacon."
"Latin","They fight with tweezers, not swords."
"Latin","They fought with varying success."
"Latin","They found no fault with Time, save that he fled."
"Latin","They give, to find a pretext for asking."
"Latin","They laugh till they cry."
"Latin","There is no wheat without chaff."
"Latin","They attend a funeral robed in white, and a wedding in mourning."
"Latin","Build but one nest in one tree."
"Latin","By repeated blows even the oak is felled."
"Latin","By pleasing, while we instruct."
"Latin","By much laughter you detect the fool."
"Latin","By learning you will teach; by teaching you will learn."
"Latin","By ignorance we mistake, and by mistakes we learn."
"Latin","By hook or crook."
"Latin","By hook or by crook."
"Latin","By good nature and kindness even fierce spirits become tractable."
"Latin","By good means or bad."
"Latin","By fair means or foul."
"Latin","By doing nothing men learn to do evil."
"Latin","Bold in design, but timid in execution."
"Latin","But now I was a rich man, three things have left me bare; dice, wine, and women, these three have made me poor."
"Latin","By suppers more have been killed than Galen ever cured."
"Latin","Bring not a bagpipe to a man in trouble."
"Latin","Bright enough in the dark, dull in time of day. [Learned in what is of no use, ignorant of everything at all available.]"
"Latin","Bribes will enter without knocking."
"Latin","Brevity is the soul of wit."
"Latin","Brevity is pleasing."
"Latin","Brave men lived before Agamemnon."
"Latin","Branches may be trained; not the trunk."
"Latin","Brag's a good dog, but Holdfast's a better."
"Latin","Both are the better for their mutual friendship."
"Latin","Bones snatched from the mouth of a hungry dog."
"Latin","Conversation ministers to a mind diseased."
"Latin","By a brave endurance of unavoidable evils, we conquer them."
"Latin","Choose a wife from among your equals."
"Latin","An ungrateful man is a tub full of holes."
"Latin","Constant dropping wears away a stone."
"Latin","Constant dripping wears away the rock."
"Latin","Consideration should be shown to a novice."
"Latin","Consideration is the parent of wisdom."
"Latin","Consideration gets as many victories as rashness loses."
"Latin","Conscience is as a thousand witnesses."
"Latin","Conscience betrays guilt."
"Latin","Confound those who have anticipated us in what we would have said!"
"Latin","Compete not with a friend."
"Latin","Colewort twice cooked."
"Latin","By speedy, not by slow measures."
"Latin","Clodius impeaches the adulterers!"
"Latin","By submitting to an old insult you invite a new one."
"Latin","Cease your jests, there is no joke in being ill-natured."
"Latin","Cautious in small matters, careless in great."
"Latin","Catching's before hanging."
"Latin","Catch the opportunity."
"Latin","Carthage must be destroyed! [Our greatest enemy must be subdued.]"
"Latin","Candour breeds hatred."
"Latin","Calumniate strongly and some of it will stick."
"Latin","By writing you learn to write."
"Latin","By what servant is his master better loved than by his dog?"
"Latin","By the hands of many a great work is made light."
"Latin","By the familiarity of the master the servant is spoilt."
"Latin","Birds fly not into our mouths ready roasted."
"Latin","Close sits my shirt, but closer my skin."
"Latin","As you have arranged the thread so must you weave it."
"Latin","Bad is want which is born of plenty."
"Latin","Bad hen, bad egg."
"Latin","Bad head, bad heart."
"Latin","Bad fowl, bad egg."
"Latin","Bad beginnings lead to bad results."
"Latin","Away with grieving, only fit for women."
"Latin","Avoid strife with those in power."
"Latin","Avoid gambling."
"Latin","Avoid bawling in conversation or in play."
"Latin","Attempt nothing beyond your strength."
"Latin","At the bar of one's own conscience."
"Latin","Bold resolution is the favourite of providence."
"Latin","Assistance given when it is not required, is as bad as an injury."
"Latin","Be brave, not ferocious."
"Latin","As to what is future, even a bird with a long neck cannot see it, but God only."
"Latin","As to the juror or the witness, bribe both."
"Latin","As the tree is known by its fruit, so is the wicked man by his deeds."
"Latin","As numerous as the leaves of the oak, or the waves which wash the island."
"Latin","As a man has lived, so will he die."
"Latin","Arms are of little service abroad unless directed by the wisdom of counsellors at home."
"Latin","Any man can steer in a calm."
"Latin","Anxious about the shoe, but disregarding the foot. [Careful about external appearances, but regardless of the culture of the mind.]"
"Latin","Antiquity is entitled to respect."
"Latin","Anger is a transient madness."
"Latin","Every virtue is but halfway between two vices."
"Latin","At once a good general and a stout soldier."
"Latin","Beautiful things are secured with most difficulty."
"Latin","Beware of the dog. [Lat., Cave canem.]"
"Latin","Beware of a silent dog and still water."
"Latin","Better take time."
"Latin","Believe that you have it, and it is yours."
"Latin","Believe nothing of what you hear, and only half of what you see."
"Latin","Believe nothing and be on your guard against everything."
"Latin","Believe not that the stream is shallow because its surface is smooth."
"Latin","Believe not that all that shines is gold."
"Latin","Believe no man more than yourself when you are spoken of. [Let your own conscience be a check against the effect of the flattery of others.]"
"Latin","Believe him who speaks from experience."
"Latin","Being warned, let us pursue a better course."
"Latin","Bashfulness will not avail a beggar."
"Latin","Being but a woman, raise not the sword. [Offer not assistance when you can be of no service.]"
"Latin","Be angry with a murderer, but keep your compassion for his victim."
"Latin","Bear won't bite bear."
"Latin","Bear with others and you shall be borne with."
"Latin","Bear no malice."
"Latin","Beads about the neck, and the devil in his heart."
"Latin","Be what you would seem to be."
"Latin","Be what you appear to be. [Act up to the reputation which you enjoy.]"
"Latin","Be on your guard against a silent dog and still water."
"Latin","Be old when young, if you would be young when old."
"Latin","Be old betimes, if you wish your old age to last."
"Latin","Be not unmindful of obligations conferred."
"Latin","Be mine; I will be thine."
"Latin","Conviviality reveals secrets."
"Latin","Being on sea, sail; being on land, settle."
"Latin","Enjoying the fruits of the labour of others."
"Latin","Even a mangy camel will carry more that a herd of asses."
"Latin","Even a hare will insult a dead lion."
"Latin","Even a hair hath its shadow."
"Latin","Even a fool sometimes speaks to the purpose."
"Latin","Even a fly can show temper."
"Latin","Even a child may beat a man that's bound."
"Latin","Even a boy can beat a man when bound."
"Latin","Envy waits on boasting."
"Latin","Envy no man."
"Latin","Envy never has a holiday."
"Latin","Envy is the companion of glory."
"Latin","Either a ship or a tuft of feathers."
"Latin","Enough, even to loathing."
"Latin","Even Jupiter himself cannot be in love and wise at the same time."
"Latin","England's difficulty is Ireland's opportunity."
"Latin","England is the paradise of women, the hell of horses, and the purgatory of servants."
"Latin","Emulation is the whetstone of talent."
"Latin","Emulation begets emulation."
"Latin","Empty the glass if you would judge of the drink."
"Latin","Empty pitchers ring loudest."
"Latin","Empty expressions. Bombast."
"Latin","Eloquence avails nothing against the voice of gold."
"Latin","Either never attempt a thing or carry it out."
"Latin","Either Caesar, or nobody."
"Latin","Contrasts mutually set off each other."
"Latin","Enter not at all, or else pass through."
"Latin","Every little blade of grass declares the presence of God."
"Latin","Every suitor is not a heart breaker."
"Latin","Every stone conceals a lurking scorpion."
"Latin","Every soil does not bear the same fruit."
"Latin","Every sheet has parted. [Every hope has vanished.]"
"Latin","Every reproach against an accused man is contemptible."
"Latin","Every may-be hath a may-be not."
"Latin","Every man's sin falls on his own head."
"Latin","Every man who can blow a horn is not a huntsman."
"Latin","Every man rejoices in his peculiar study."
"Latin","Every man judges of others by himself."
"Latin","Every man has his peculiar habit."
"Latin","Even a straw becomes heavy, if you carry it far enough."
"Latin","Every lover is a slave: he follows captive at his mistress's heels."
"Latin","Even hares insult a dead lion."
"Latin","Every innovation startles us more by its novelty than it benefits us by its utility."
"Latin","Every great thing only consists of many small particles united."
"Latin","Every advantage has its disadvantage."
"Latin","Ever receive a present with approbation."
"Latin","Even the smallest spark shines brightly in darkness."
"Latin","Even the rustling of leaves will alarm the hare."
"Latin","Even the fountains thirst. [Avarice is never satisfied.]"
"Latin","Even the fear of death is dispelled by music."
"Latin","Even the beggar envies the beggar."
"Latin","Even the ant hath its anger."
"Latin","Even light takes a decade to travel ten light-years."
"Latin","Eels become accustomed to skinning."
"Latin","Every man for himself."
"Latin","Death is common to all."
"Latin","Different pursuits suit different ages."
"Latin","Different men like different things."
"Latin","Despise school and remain a fool."
"Latin","Despise not the weak: the gnat stings the eyes of the lion."
"Latin","Desires are nourished by delays."
"Latin","Desire of glory is the last garment that even wise men put off."
"Latin","Desire nothing that would bring disgrace."
"Latin","Deliberate slowly, execute quickly."
"Latin","Deliberate often--decide once."
"Latin","Death to the wolf is life to the lambs."
"Latin","Death snatches away the most deserving, and leaves the wicked."
"Latin","Either by might or by sleight."
"Latin","Death is preferable."
"Latin","Divide and rule. [Win by creating disunion among your adversaries.]"
"Latin","Death defies the doctor."
"Latin","Death cancels everything but truth."
"Latin","Death brings to a level spades and sceptres."
"Latin","Dead men do not bite."
"Latin","Cultivate the garden within."
"Latin","Cultivate not a barren soil."
"Latin","Cowards win no laurels."
"Latin","Covet not the property of others."
"Latin","Courts grant not their favours as men are good and deserving."
"Latin","Court not companionship with tigers."
"Latin","Correct a wise man, and he will be grateful; correct a fool, and he will not only give a deaf ear, but send you off with a flea in your ear."
"Latin","Death is the great leveller."
"Latin","Don't that just butter your grits."
"Latin","Education is the poor man's haven."
"Latin","Eat well, drink in moderation, and sleep sound, in these three good health abound."
"Latin","Early, not late remedies are the most effective."
"Latin","Early rising is most conducive to health."
"Latin","Early ripe, early rotten."
"Latin","Each man has his peculiar hobby."
"Latin","Each hour injures, the last one slays."
"Latin","Dry bread at home is better than roast meat abroad."
"Latin","Drunkenness makes some men fools, some beasts, and some devils."
"Latin","Drumming is not the way to catch a hare."
"Latin","Drown not thyself to save a drowning man."
"Latin","Different strokes for different folks."
"Latin","Double charging will break a cannon."
"Latin","Differing in words, not in reality. [A verbal, not an actual difference.]"
"Latin","Don't tell a secret to anybody, unless you want the whole world to know it."
"Latin","Don't draw another's bow, don't ride another's horse, don't mind another's business."
"Latin","Don't do that of which you doubt the propriety."
"Latin","Don't be frightened at high-sounding words."
"Latin","Do well and have well."
"Latin","Do not lengthen the quarrel while there is an opportunity of escaping."
"Latin","Do not give an opinion until it is asked for."
"Latin","Do chattering monkeys mimic men, Or we, turned apes, out-monkey them?"
"Latin","Do business best when the wind's in the west."
"Latin","Do as you would be done unto."
"Latin","Do as I say, not as I do."
"Latin","An opportunity is found with difficulty and easily lost."
"Latin","Dropping water makes the rock hollow, not by its force, but by constant action."
"Latin","A hungry man will listen to nothing."
"Latin","A liar is not believed when he speaks the truth. [Fable of boy and wolf.]"
"Latin","A letter once written cannot be recalled."
"Latin","A leopard does not change his spots."
"Latin","A leopard cannot change his spots."
"Latin","A lengthy sermon is intolerable."
"Latin","A learned man has always wealth in himself."
"Latin","A king, a master, a parent, a judge, may fail to frighten us; but sickness coming brings with it successful reproof."
"Latin","A king's chaff is worth more than other men's corn."
"Latin","A king's castle is his home."
"Latin","A king or a slave."
"Latin","A kindness bestowed on the good is never thrown away."
"Latin","A good leader makes a good follower."
"Latin","A jackdaw among the muses."
"Latin","A man as he manages himself may die old at thirty, or young at eighty."
"Latin","A hungry ass needs not a blow."
"Latin","A horse deprived of his food won't work."
"Latin","A honey-comb in the mouth of a lion!"
"Latin","A hard life but a healthy one."
"Latin","A hard knot requires a hard wedge."
"Latin","A guest should not remain for ever a guest."
"Latin","A great dowry, a bed full of brambles."
"Latin","A great city. a great desert."
"Latin","A good thing is esteemed more in its absence than in its enjoyment."
"Latin","A good orator, but a very bad man."
"Latin","A poor cask often holds good wine."
"Latin","A jealous woman will set a whole house on fire."
"Latin","A middle course is the safest."
"Latin","An unguarded speech reveals the truth."
"Latin","A picture is a poem wanting words."
"Latin","A perfect whipping-top for changing sides."
"Latin","A nod for a wise man, and a rod for a fool."
"Latin","A nobody to-day, a prince to-morrow. [The reverse of ""To-day a man, to-morrow a mouse.""]"
"Latin","A mouse will put the finishing stroke to a castle wall."
"Latin","A mouse may help a lion."
"Latin","A mouse in time may bite in two a cable."
"Latin","A mouse in pitch. [A man engaged in useless and perplexing inquiries.]"
"Latin","A monkey is not to be caught in a trap."
"Latin","A miser's son is generally a spendthrift."
"Latin","A light supper is beneficial."
"Latin","A mind conscious of guilt is its own accuser."
"Latin","A lion may be beholden to a mouse."
"Latin","A man of good natural plain common sense."
"Latin","A man of gladness seldom falls into madness."
"Latin","A man of few words but learned withal."
"Latin","A man may lose what are his clearest rights by not demanding them."
"Latin","A man is not where he lives, but where he loves."
"Latin","A man is judged of by his companions."
"Latin","A man is judged by his clothes."
"Latin","A man is a king in his own house."
"Latin","A man in a passion rides a horse that runs away with him."
"Latin","A man if he lives alone is either a god or a demon."
"Latin","A man devoid of religion is like a horse without a bridle."
"Latin","A good dog deserves a good bone."
"Latin","A mind conscious of innocence laughs at the lies of rumor."
"Latin","A chain is no stronger than its weakest link."
"Latin","A covetous man does nothing that he should till he dies."
"Latin","A cough will stick longer by a horse than a peck of oats."
"Latin","A cough assists a musician when he hesitates."
"Latin","A contented mind is a continual feast."
"Latin","A contented man is always rich."
"Latin","A constant guest is never welcome."
"Latin","A common shipwreck is a consolation to all."
"Latin","A common blot is held no stain."
"Latin","A combined defence is the safest."
"Latin","A clear conscience is a wall of brass."
"Latin","A child may have too much of his mother's blessing."
"Latin","A good name is like sweet smelling ointment."
"Latin","A chain is only as strong as its weakest link."
"Latin","A delightful hallucination."
"Latin","A cautious man will observe the indications of character which nature reveals in others."
"Latin","A captive they insult with impunity."
"Latin","A busybody is always malevolent."
"Latin","A bow too much bent is broken."
"Latin","A blow from a frying-pan blacks, though it may not hurt."
"Latin","A blockhead, a dolt, a donkey, a leaden-headed fellow."
"Latin","A biting cur wears a torn skin."
"Latin","A bird is distinguished by its note."
"Latin","A beaten track is a safe one."
"Latin","A beardless boy would teach old men!"
"Latin","A bad father has never a good son."
"Latin","A chair unsound Soon finds the ground."
"Latin","A drunken man, when asleep, is better left alone. [Let a slumbering evil rest where it is.]"
"Latin","A good dinner helps deliberation."
"Latin","A good beginning ensures a good ending."
"Latin","A gadding girl is rarely coy."
"Latin","A friend that you buy with presents, will be bought from you."
"Latin","A friend that will go to the scaffold with you."
"Latin","A fox is not caught twice in the same trap."
"Latin","A fox is known by this tail."
"Latin","A fool talks of folly."
"Latin","A fool repays a salve by a stab, and a stab by a salve. [He mistakes friends for foes and foes for friends.]"
"Latin","A fisherman once stung will be wiser."
"Latin","A fire is nourished by its own ashes. [Difficulties embolden rather than impede the brave.]"
"Latin","A crooked log is not to be straightened."
"Latin","A faithless wife is shipwreck to a house."
"Latin","A dealer in rubbish sounds the praises of rubbish."
"Latin","A drop of luck is worth a cask of wisdom."
"Latin","A door must be either shut or open."
"Latin","A donkey is known by his ears."
"Latin","A dog which has been beaten with a stick is afraid of its shadow."
"Latin","A dog that will fetch a bone will carry a bone."
"Latin","A dog is worthy of his food."
"Latin","A dog in a kennel barks at his fleas; a dog hunting does not notice them."
"Latin","A dog as he sleeps barks as if on the track of the hare."
"Latin","A dissimilarity of pursuits dissolves friendship."
"Latin","A diligent man ever finds that something remains to be done."
"Latin","A depraved mind never comes to good."
"Latin","A precipice in front of you, and wolves behind you; that is life."
"Latin","A few things gained by fraud destroy a fortune otherwise honestly won."
"Latin","All clouds are not rain clouds."
"Latin","All things come not to pass which the mind has conceived."
"Latin","All things are possible with God."
"Latin","All things are not good for all."
"Latin","All things are easy that are done willingly."
"Latin","All things are cause for either laughter or weeping."
"Latin","All the hours wound you, the last one kills. [Vulnerant omnia, ultima necat.]"
"Latin","All that meal comes not from your own sack."
"Latin","All power is impatient of a partner."
"Latin","It is one thing to boast, another to fight."
"Latin","All lay load on the willing horse."
"Latin","He prepares evil for himself who plots mischief for others."
"Latin","Add not fire to fire."
"Latin","All flute-players are mad; when once they begin to blow, away goes reason."
"Latin","An aching for wine--a wine-ache."
"Latin","All claim kindred with the prosperous."
"Latin","All are not harpers, who hold the harp."
"Latin","Alexander the Great was but of small stature."
"Latin","Alas! I suffer from self-inflicted wounds!"
"Latin","Alas! how much smaller a thing it is to be with others, than to remember thee!"
"Latin","Alas for those that get the worst of it!"
"Latin","Aim at a certain issue."
"Latin","Again and again I beg and pray of you to live merrily: should aught distress you, dismiss it from your minds."
"Latin","After the manner of Mandrabulus [i.e., going from worse to worse]."
"Latin","After darkness comes light."
"Latin","A plank in a wreck."
"Latin","All is in vain unless Providence is with us."
"Latin","An excess of caution does no harm."
"Latin","An onion will not produce a rose."
"Latin","An old woman would dance!"
"Latin","An old woman dancing makes a great dust. [Anything out of season is obnoxious.]"
"Latin","An old lion is better than a young ass."
"Latin","An old fox understands the trap."
"Latin","An old fox is not to be caught in a trap."
"Latin","An old fox is not caught in a snare."
"Latin","An old ape hath an old eye."
"Latin","An object of pity even to a foe."
"Latin","An insolent lord is not a gentleman."
"Latin","An inquisitive man is always ill-natured."
"Latin","All things come to those who wait."
"Latin","An idle youth becomes in age a beggar."
"Latin","Among the blind a one-eyed man is a king."
"Latin","An evil gain is equal to a loss."
"Latin","An evil doer abhors the light of day."
"Latin","An evil comes from a neighbouring evil."
"Latin","An empty vessel makes the most sound."
"Latin","An elephant does not catch mice."
"Latin","An eel, held by the tail, is not yet caught."
"Latin","An ass is beautiful in the eyes of an ass; a sow in those of a sow; and every race is attractive to itself."
"Latin","An ape's an ape, a varlet's a varlet, though they be clad in silk and scarlet."
"Latin","An ape's an ape, a varlet's a varlet, Though they be clad in silk or scarlet."
"Latin","An ape is an ape, though decked with gold."
"Latin","An ancient custom, not of to-day or yesterday."
"Latin","Acting is the forte of all their race."
"Latin","An industrious life is the best security for food in old age."
"Latin","A sick mind cannot endure any harshness."
"Latin","A sword anointed with honey."
"Latin","A swarm in May is worth a load of hay; a swarm in June is worth a silver spoon; but a swarm in July is not worth a fly."
"Latin","A suspicious mind sees everything on the dark side."
"Latin","A surgeon tries his experiments on the heads of orphans."
"Latin","A strong remedy for evils is ignorance of them."
"Latin","A soft-spoken compliment is honied poison."
"Latin","A soft answer bids a Furioso to put up his sword."
"Latin","A snake lies concealed in the grass."
"Latin","A small gift, but well-timed."
"Latin","A small competence is best."
"Latin","A slice off a cut loaf isn't missed."
"Latin","After clouds sunshine."
"Latin","A silent woman is always more admired than a noisy one."
"Latin","A trifling pledge of no small friendship."
"Latin","A service done to the unwilling is no service."
"Latin","A sceptre is one thing, a ladle another."
"Latin","A rotten egg cannot be spoiled."
"Latin","A rose is a rose is a rose."
"Latin","A rogue says ""Yes"" to what a rogue says."
"Latin","A rising tide lifts all boats."
"Latin","A ring of gold in a sow's nostril."
"Latin","A ridiculous accident has often been the making of many."
"Latin","A rich man is either a rogue or a rogue's heir."
"Latin","A prospering man should remain at home."
"Latin","A precipice is in front, a wolf behind."
"Latin","A slave yesterday, to-day a freedman."
"Latin","A white glove often conceals a dirty hand."
"Latin","Acting in concert, like the oil-merchants in the Velabrum."
"Latin","According to the nature of his sin shall a man be punished."
"Latin","Abuse does not invalidate usefulness."
"Latin","About everything and something else."
"Latin","A word is sufficient for the wise."
"Latin","A woman is to be from her house three times: when she is christened, married and buried."
"Latin","A woman hath nine lives like a cat."
"Latin","A woman for a general, and the soldiers will be women."
"Latin","A wolf's head (on which a price was put). [An outlaw. A Pariah. Fair game for anybody.]"
"Latin","A wise man will make tools of what comes to hand."
"Latin","A wise man will make more opportunities than he finds."
"Latin","A sword of lead in a scabbard of ivory."
"Latin","A wise man should never give his wife too much rein."
"Latin","A tree often transplanted does not thrive."
"Latin","A whistling woman and a crowing hen are neither fit for God nor men."
"Latin","A wheel not greased will creak. [Those who are not properly paid will not work without grumbling.]"
"Latin","A well-beaten path does not always make the right road."
"Latin","A well which is drawn from is improved. [Art is improved by practice.]"
"Latin","A wealthy man can err with impunity."
"Latin","A weak foundation destroys the work."
"Latin","A want of pence stops all your marketing."
"Latin","A useless pitcher does not get broken."
"Latin","A troubled heart is a worm to the bones."
"Latin","A trouble shared is a trouble halved."
"Latin","A triple rope is not easily broken."
"Latin","All men grieve, and if you ask them the reason why, they cannot tell it."
"Latin","A wise man turns chance into good fortune."
"Latin","How quickly with all is a kindness forgotten!"
"Latin","I am touched but not broken by the waves."
"Latin","I am recommending you to do what I should do myself."
"Latin","I am less concerned about them than about the croaking frogs in the marsh."
"Latin","I am in a place where three ways meet."
"Latin","I am in a fix. [In a place where three ways meet.]"
"Latin","Hypocritical piety is double iniquity."
"Latin","Hunger teaches us many a lesson."
"Latin","Hunger sweetens everything but itself."
"Latin","Hunger sharpens anger."
"Latin","Hunger and thirst scarcely kill any, But gluttony and drink kill a great many."
"Latin","Hunger and delay raise up anger."
"Latin","Honourable words by the bushel!"
"Latin","How to live happily, not luxuriously, is the question."
"Latin","I bear the laurel-branch."
"Latin","How near to guilt without actual guilt."
"Latin","How much do we resemble that filthy brute the ape!"
"Latin","How many accidents keep human life a rolling."
"Latin","How great the sufferings we endure."
"Latin","How changed from what he was!"
"Latin","Hopes delayed hang the heart upon tenter-hooks."
"Latin","Hope sustains the farmer."
"Latin","Hope supports men in distress."
"Latin","Hope is our only comfort in adversity."
"Latin","Hope is a good breakfast but a bad supper."
"Latin","If ifs and ands were pots and pans there'd be no work for tinkers."
"Latin","However extravagant men's desires, they hope to see them gratified."
"Latin","I wince to win."
"Latin","He who has plenty of pepper may season his food as he likes."
"Latin","If he should ask for wine, box his ears."
"Latin","If flesh is not to be had, fish must content us."
"Latin","If doctors fail thee, be these three thy doctors--Rest, cheerfulness, and moderate diet."
"Latin","If better were within, better would come out."
"Latin","If being well bearded brings happiness. a he-goat must be happier than any of us."
"Latin","If all men were on an equality, the consequence would be that all must perish: for who would till the ground? who would sow it? Who would plant? who would press wine?."
"Latin","If a man falls in love with a frog, he thinks his frog a very Diana."
"Latin","Idleness is ever the root of indecision."
"Latin","I would rather buy than beg."
"Latin","I would rather be in an apple-tree, than a bad man in distress."
"Latin","I am what you will be, I was what you now are."
"Latin","I wish I were at home. [Oh! that I were out of this mess and in safety.]"
"Latin","I am willing but unable."
"Latin","I speak of garlic, you reply about onions. [I speak of one thing, you reply what is wholly irrelevant.]"
"Latin","I simply state what I have heard."
"Latin","I regret that I have given what I have."
"Latin","I prefer death to disgrace."
"Latin","I know Simon, and Simon knows me. [A couple of rogues.]"
"Latin","I kill the boars, but another eats the flesh."
"Latin","I have washed my hands of it."
"Latin","I have lost my labour and my cost."
"Latin","I cannot get on with you, or without you."
"Latin","I came, I saw, I won."
"Latin","I beggar is not favoured even by his relations."
"Latin","Honour's onerous."
"Latin","I would not purchase it at the price of a rotten nut."
"Latin","He who loves a one-eyed girl thinks that one-eyed girls are beautiful."
"Latin","He'd skin a louse, and send the hide and fat to market."
"Latin","He writes with an iron pen. [That which he writes will not be easily altered.]"
"Latin","He won't give us so much as the skin."
"Latin","He will embark in litigation, even if a donkey has bitten his dog."
"Latin","He will die before he's old who's wise before his time."
"Latin","He who would catch is caught."
"Latin","He who waits till an opportunity occurs may wait for ever."
"Latin","He who takes it to himself, he it is who has done the act."
"Latin","He who spares the rod hates his son."
"Latin","He who paints the flower cannot paint its fragrance."
"Latin","He who oweth is all in the wrong."
"Latin","Hope gives strength and courage, and saves an otherwise dying man from his grave."
"Latin","He who makes too much haste gains his end later."
"Latin","He, who shareth honey with the bear, hath the least part of it."
"Latin","He who lives by medical treatment has but a wretched existence."
"Latin","He who lies on the ground cannot fall."
"Latin","He who knows not how to employ his leisure hath more cares on his mind than the most busy of busily-engaged men."
"Latin","He who is in love with himself need fear no rival."
"Latin","He who increases knowledge, increases sorrow."
"Latin","He who hath much peas may put the more in the pot."
"Latin","He who hath lost his good name how shall he in future gain his living."
"Latin","He who hastens too much stumbles and falls."
"Latin","He who hastens to be rich will not be without fault."
"Latin","He who has tried it, is afraid of it."
"Latin","He who has received a kindness forgets it; he who has been injured remembers it. [To benefit one and injure another at the same time is a losing game, for revenge is a stronger feeling than gratitude.]"
"Latin","He who owes nothing fears not the sheriff's officer."
"Latin","His illness is more mental than bodily."
"Latin","Honey-tongued, soft spoken, malicious, and unprincipled in conduct."
"Latin","Honey cloys."
"Latin","Honey catches most flies."
"Latin","Honey catches more flies than vinegar."
"Latin","Honesty with poverty is better than ill-gotten wealth."
"Latin","Home is home, be it ever so humble."
"Latin","Home is home, as the Devil said when he found himself in the Court of Session."
"Latin","Home is home though it's never so homely."
"Latin","Holyday time will not last forever."
"Latin","History repeats itself."
"Latin","His wit got wings and would have flown, But poverty still kept him down."
"Latin","He, who denies his faults, makes no atonement for them."
"Latin","His presents conceal a baited hook."
"Latin","He, who neglects the little, loses the greater."
"Latin","His heart fell down to his heels."
"Latin","Him whom Jove would destroy he first deprives of his reason. [Arrogant, insolent, and vainglorious people work out their own ruin.]"
"Latin","Hidden valour is as bad as cowardice."
"Latin","Hercules himself could not cope with two assailants."
"Latin","Help him who is willing to work, not him who shrinks from it."
"Latin","Help by actions, not by words."
"Latin","Hearing he hears not. He is deaf to entreaty. [Aliter., To feign deafness.]"
"Latin","Hear, see, and be silent."
"Latin","Hear both sides of a question."
"Latin","Hear all, see all, say nowt, tak' all, keep all, gie nowt, and if tha ever does owt for nowt do it for thysen."
"Latin","Hear all, say nothing."
"Latin","If ifs and ands were pots and pans, there'd be no work for tinkers' hands."
"Latin","His tongue says little, but powerful is his right arm."
"Latin","It is a mean thing to despise unsuccessful merit."
"Latin","It is better to be always prepared than to suffer once. [Keep oil in your lamps.]"
"Latin","It is best to learn wisdom from the follies of others."
"Latin","It is best to learn wisdom by the experience of others."
"Latin","It is bad to contend about trifles."
"Latin","It is an honourable thing to be accused by those who are open to accusation."
"Latin","It is an easy task to improve upon an invention."
"Latin","It is an absurdity that he should rule others who cannot command himself."
"Latin","It is all over: I may as well go and hand myself."
"Latin","It is a wretched position to be dependent on others for support."
"Latin","It is a solace to the miserable to have a companion in their grief."
"Latin","It is a poor dog that's not worth whistling for."
"Latin","It doubles the value of a gift to be well-timed."
"Latin","It is a misery to be born, a punishment to live, and a trouble to die."
"Latin","It is better to fly than to remain in disgrace."
"Latin","It is a fraud to connive at a fraud."
"Latin","It is a foul bird that fills his own nest."
"Latin","It is a disgrace to be praised by those who deserve no praise."
"Latin","It is a bad bargain, where both are losers."
"Latin","It is a bad action that success cannot justify."
"Latin","It has caused injury and will do so again."
"Latin","It has become a proverb."
"Latin","It hangs by a hair."
"Latin","It flies gently, but wounds deeply. [Slander.]"
"Latin","It flies at our approach but follows us as we retire. [A Shadow, Glory, or Love.]"
"Latin","If I wrestle with a filthy thing, win or lose, I shall be defiled."
"Latin","It is a no good hen, that cackles in your house and lays in another's."
"Latin","It is inexcusable to have remained long away, and return empty-handed."
"Latin","All is not false which is publicly reported."
"Latin","Everybody has a name, but not always the same luck with it."
"Latin","It is often better to go by a circuitous than by a direct path."
"Latin","It is not easy suddenly to cast aside a fancy long indulged in."
"Latin","It is not becoming to play the fox, or to play up on both sides."
"Latin","It is not at the altar that we should consider the course we would take."
"Latin","It is not allowed in war to blunder twice."
"Latin","It is no business of mine; may it go to the devil!"
"Latin","It is never too late to mend."
"Latin","It is never too late to learn."
"Latin","It is never too late to ask what time it is."
"Latin","It is better to be born lucky than rich."
"Latin","It is more difficult to bridle the tongue than to conquer an army."
"Latin","It is better to enjoy what we possess than to hanker after other things."
"Latin","It is easy to set a cask a rolling. [To influence a fool.]"
"Latin","It is easier to win good luck than to retain it."
"Latin","It is easier to run from virtue to vice, than from vice to virtue."
"Latin","It is easier to raise the Devil than to lay him."
"Latin","It is easier to pull down than to build up."
"Latin","It is cruel to refer to those things which cause sorrow."
"Latin","It is but fair that he who requires indulgence for his own offences should grant it to others."
"Latin","It is better to turn back than to persevere in an evil course."
"Latin","It is better to say nothing than not enough."
"Latin","It is better to satisfy our hunger than to be clothed in purple."
"Latin","It is better to give than to receive."
"Latin","It does not fall to the lot of all to smell of musk."
"Latin","It is more wicked to love a sin than to commit one."
"Latin","If you are contented with your lot, you will live wisely."
"Latin","Ill-doers, ill-deemers."
"Latin","Ill words are bellows to a slackening fire."
"Latin","Ill weeds grows apace."
"Latin","Ignorance is not privileged by titular degrees."
"Latin","If your conduct be noble, you will be a king."
"Latin","If you would resemble the vulture, look out for a carcase. [Wait for dead men's shoes.]"
"Latin","If you strike a goad with your fist, your hand will suffer most."
"Latin","If you snooze, you loose."
"Latin","If you sit on a seat, and that seat is a comfortable seat, sit on that seat, and do not leave that seat."
"Latin","If you say that he is guilty of ingratitude, you need say no more."
"Latin","If you desire peace, be ever prepared for war."
"Latin","It early pricks that will he a thorn."
"Latin","If you cannot drive an ox, drive a donkey."
"Latin","Immortal glory waits on talent."
"Latin","If you always live with those who are lame, you will yourself learn to limp."
"Latin","If there were clouds we should not enjoy the sun."
"Latin","If there is righteousness in the heart, there will be beauty in character."
"Latin","If there is no wind, row."
"Latin","If the wind will not serve, take to the oars."
"Latin","If the mountain will not come to Mahomet, Mahomet must go to the mountain."
"Latin","If the mother had never been in the oven, she would not have looked for her daughter there."
"Latin","If the lion's skin falls short, piece it out with that of the fox."
"Latin","If the head aches all the members of the body suffer."
"Latin","If poor, act with caution."
"Latin","If it pleases you, it does not displease me."
"Latin","If you care for the court, the court will bring cares for you."
"Latin","In time of prosperity consider how you will bear adversity."
"Latin","Into the mouth of a bad dog falls many a good bone."
"Latin","Interfere not in the quarrels of others."
"Latin","Instead of a treasure, coals! [""'Rum,' I hopes! 'Baccy,' I thinks! 'Tracts,' by jingo!"" Sailor's remark on discovering that he had picked up a bottle of tracts.]"
"Latin","Instead of a fish he gives you a scorpion."
"Latin","Injuries, when treated with contempt, vanish and have no effect. If you show anger their effect would appear to be acknowledged."
"Latin","Injuries put us on our guard."
"Latin","Injuries destroy affection."
"Latin","Indulge not in boisterous mirth."
"Latin","In vain the net is spread in the sight of the bird."
"Latin","In vain does a man possess property if he makes no use of it."
"Latin","In times of peace we should think of war."
"Latin","Imitate the snail in deliberation, the bird in execution."
"Latin","In time of prosperity, friends will be plenty, In time of adversity, not one amongst twenty."
"Latin","Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery."
"Latin","In the very act of committing an offence. [Taken red handed.]"
"Latin","In the snare laid for others is your foot taken."
"Latin","In the midst of our mirth some annoyance always arises to vex us."
"Latin","In prosperity look out for squalls."
"Latin","In forming new friendships, forget not old friends."
"Latin","In flying from one enemy you encounter another."
"Latin","In every pomegranate a decayed pip is to be found."
"Latin","In courtship a man pursues a woman until she catches him."
"Latin","In chatter a river, in understanding but a single drop."
"Latin","In avoiding Charybdis, he falls into Scylla."
"Latin","Impatience does not diminish but augments the evil."
"Latin","In misfortune we need help, not lamentation."
"Latin","In time of sickness man is ever on his best behaviour."
"Latin","Gather flowers while the morning sun lasts."
"Latin","Gold is proved by fire."
"Latin","God will be present, whether asked or not."
"Latin","God sends meat, but the Devil sends cooks."
"Latin","God sends enough to all."
"Latin","Glory is the shadow of virtue."
"Latin","Give wine to them that are in sorrow."
"Latin","Give to each man that which is his due."
"Latin","Give ear to that man who has four ears."
"Latin","Give ear and weigh the matter well."
"Latin","Give a helping hand to a man in trouble."
"Latin","Gently, not by force."
"Latin","From one you may judge of the whole."
"Latin","Gather thistles, expect prickles."
"Latin","Govern your passions, or they will govern you."
"Latin","Full of courtesy, full of craft."
"Latin","Full feasting breeds ferocity."
"Latin","Fruit ripens not well in the shade."
"Latin","Frugality is an estate alone."
"Latin","Frugality is a great revenue."
"Latin","From what has taken place we infer what is about to happen."
"Latin","From trifling causes great results arise."
"Latin","From the old ox the young one learns to plough."
"Latin","From the miseries of others he fears for his own position."
"Latin","From small things a great heap is made."
"Latin","Have a care not to commence an undertaking of which you may repent."
"Latin","Gently but firmly."
"Latin","Happiness invites envy."
"Latin","Have a care how you irritate the wasps. [Meddle not with waspish people. Attack not a combined force.]"
"Latin","Hatred is a settled anger."
"Latin","Hate knows no age but death."
"Latin","Haste trips up its own heels."
"Latin","Haste manages all things badly."
"Latin","Harsh is the voice which would dismiss us, but sweet is the sound of welcome."
"Latin","Hard things alone will not make a wall. [Some soft substance must unite them: and so with hard men--to fraternize they require some soft influence from others.]"
"Latin","Hard is the path from poverty to renown."
"Latin","Hard by a river he digs a well."
"Latin","Happy's the wooing that is not long a-doing."
"Latin","Happy is the man whose father went to the devil."
"Latin","Good debts become bad unless called in."
"Latin","Happy are one-eyed men in the country of the blind."
"Latin","Good luck lasts not for ever."
"Latin","Had he not been visited by sickness, he would have perished utterly."
"Latin","Habit is second nature."
"Latin","Habit in sinning takes away the sense of sin."
"Latin","Habit gives readiness."
"Latin","Habit causes love."
"Latin","Grow where you are planted."
"Latin","Grind with every wind."
"Latin","Grieving for misfortunes is adding gall to wormwood."
"Latin","Grieve not for that which is irreparably lost."
"Latin","Great fish feed on the lesser."
"Latin","Great discomfort arises from too hearty a supper: if you would enjoy a tranquil sleep let your supper be a light one."
"Latin","From a simple spark there will often be produced a great conflagration."
"Latin","Happy is the man who is out of debt."
"Latin","Explaining what is obscure by what is still more obscure. [Making confusion worse confounded.]"
"Latin","Find you without an excuse, and find a hare without a meuse."
"Latin","Find words butter no parsnips."
"Latin","Find a cruel man and you see a coward."
"Latin","Fill your garners, harvest lasts not for ever."
"Latin","Figs he calls figs, a spade a spade. [Said of a man who speaks with sincerity and means what he says.]"
"Latin","Fight with silver spears, and you will overcome everything."
"Latin","Fetters of gold are still fetters, and silken cords pinch."
"Latin","Fear not a jest. If one throws salt at you, you will not be harmed unless you have sore places."
"Latin","Favours should never be forced upon others against their will."
"Latin","Fashion is more powerful than any tyrant."
"Latin","Far from Jupiter, far from his thunder."
"Latin","From our ancestors come our names, but from our virtues our honours."
"Latin","Fain would the cat fish eat, But she is loth to wet her feet."
"Latin","Fire, the sea, and woman; these are three ills."
"Latin","Experience without learning is better than learning without experience."
"Latin","Experience purchased by suffering teaches wisdom."
"Latin","Excess of obligations may lose a friend."
"Latin","Excess of delight palls the appetite."
"Latin","Excess in anything becomes a vice."
"Latin","Evils follow each other."
"Latin","Everything has its season."
"Latin","Everyone is given the key to the gates of Heaven. The same key opens the gates of Hell."
"Latin","He who has once used deception will deceive again."
"Latin","In the great sea fish is always to be caught. [There is a greater chance for enterprise in a large place.]"
"Latin","Everyone is eloquent in his own cause."
"Latin","False in one respect, never trustworthy."
"Latin","Forgetting trouble is the way to cure it."
"Latin","From a pure source pure water comes."
"Latin","Friendship lasts as long as the pot boils."
"Latin","Friends have all things in common."
"Latin","Fraud lurks in loose generalities."
"Latin","Fortune wearies with carrying one and the same man always."
"Latin","Fortune to one is mother, to another step-mother."
"Latin","Fortune smiles on the brave, and frowns upon the coward."
"Latin","Fortune helps the brave."
"Latin","Fortune favours fools."
"Latin","Fortune favors the bold but abandons the timid."
"Latin","Fortune enriches or tramples on us at her will."
"Latin","Finders keepers losers weepers."
"Latin","Fortunate is he whom the dangers of others have rendered cautious."
"Latin","Fire will not put out fire. Anger is not appeased by anger."
"Latin","Forget not that you are a man."
"Latin","Force not favours on the unwilling."
"Latin","For the last comer the bones."
"Latin","For the king, the laws and the people."
"Latin","For our altars and our hearths."
"Latin","For God and our country."
"Latin","For a paltry gift, little thanks."
"Latin","Fling him into the Nile, and he will come up with a fish in his mouth."
"Latin","Flight towards preferment will be but slow without some golden feathers."
"Latin","Flies, dogs. and mimics are the first to rush to the dish."
"Latin","Fire, water, and government know nothing of mercy."
"Latin","Feigned love is worse than hatred."
"Latin","Fortune and the arts assist each other."
"Latin","He labours in vain who attempts to please everybody."
"Latin","He is hunting for water in the sea."
"Latin","He sings his own praises."
"Latin","He should have a long spoon who sups with the devil."
"Latin","He shaves close to the skin."
"Latin","He seeks to live like a parasite. [He wants to sponge upon somebody.]"
"Latin","He seeks renown by public applause."
"Latin","He says what is wholly irrelevant."
"Latin","He rises early that is hanged before noon."
"Latin","He puts up with small annoyances to gain great results."
"Latin","He ploughs the land of others, and leaves his own untilled."
"Latin","He moistens the lips, but leaves the palate dry. [Trifling assistance, of little or no use. ]"
"Latin","He suffers from the same disease. [He is in the same difficulty.]"
"Latin","He makes a lion of a mouse."
"Latin","He talks to a dead man."
"Latin","He labors vainly, who endeavors to please every person."
"Latin","He knows the roads by which he has escaped before."
"Latin","He keeps watch over a good castle who has guarded his own constitution."
"Latin","He is wise, who suits himself to the occasion."
"Latin","He is wise to no purpose, who is not wise for himself."
"Latin","He is wise in vain who does not use his wisdom for his own advantage."
"Latin","He is unworthy of life who gives no life to another."
"Latin","He is the architect of his own fortunes."
"Latin","He is separated from the water by a plank."
"Latin","He is not happy who does not realize his happiness."
"Latin","He is looking out for a fig. [He is planning for himself.]"
"Latin","He is indeed a conqueror who conquers himself."
"Latin","He makes idle boasting."
"Latin","He unravels the enigmas of the Sphinx."
"Latin","Fear increasing age, for it does not come without companions."
"Latin","He who has come to the mill first does not grind last."
"Latin","Have a care of a silent dog and a still water."
"Latin","He who envies his admits his inferiority."
"Latin","He who endures with patience is a conqueror."
"Latin","He who does not speak the whole truth is a traitor to truth."
"Latin","He who does not fully speak the truth is a traitor to it."
"Latin","He who does not advance recedes."
"Latin","He who cannot even manage a yacht asks for a ship of burthen!"
"Latin","He who cannot do what he wishes, must needs do as he can."
"Latin","He who cannot conceal his sentiments, knows not how to live."
"Latin","He spends the happiest life who knows nothing."
"Latin","He utters in his language something different from what he ponders in his mind."
"Latin","He who follows two hares loses both."
"Latin","He travels fastest who travels alone."
"Latin","He took care to enjoy himself as long as life lasted. [N.B. A good epitaph for an alderman.]"
"Latin","He thinks nothing right, but what he does himself."
"Latin","He that has been hurt, fears."
"Latin","He that gives time to resolve, gives time to deny, and warning to prevent."
"Latin","He that gives bad counsel suffers most by it."
"Latin","He that gapeth until he be fed, Well may he gape until he is dead."
"Latin","He that follows freits, freits will follow him."
"Latin","He that flies may fight another day."
"Latin","He tells me my way, and knows not his own."
"Latin","He tells a tale of a tub."
"Latin","He talks to the wind."
"Latin","He who blows his nose too hard makes it bleed."
"Latin","He does not show a decent quality even over a good dinner."
"Latin","He fishes in troubled waters. [If you wish to catch gudgeons stir up the mud.]"
"Latin","He fell to-day, I may fall to-morrow."
"Latin","He feigns death like a panther."
"Latin","He fears the very flies."
"Latin","He fears neither the earthquake nor the fury of the waves."
"Latin","He falls short of his duty to both who tries to serve two masters."
"Latin","He falls into the pit which he himself made."
"Latin","He either wheedles by suasive means or terrifies by threats."
"Latin","He drives out one devil by another."
"Latin","Hay is more acceptable to an ass than gold."
"Latin","He does not think small beer of himself."
"Latin","He fishes well who uses a golden hook."
"Latin","He does not sing his father's songs. [He does not imitate the good example of his father.]"
"Latin","He even begrudges the water with which he washes."
"Latin","He dies twice who perishes by his own hand."
"Latin","He dies before he is old who is wise before his day."
"Latin","He catches the wind with a net."
"Latin","He catches the best fish who angles with a golden hook."
"Latin","He can carry the ox who has carried the calf."
"Latin","He assumes a cheerful countenance suppressing the grief which weighs heavily on his heart."
"Latin","He argues in vain who argues without means."
"Latin","He alone is wise who can accommodate himself to all the contingencies of life; but the fool contends, and is struggling, like a swimmer, against the stream."
"Latin","He acts wisely who says little."
"Latin","He is his own trumpeter."
"Latin","Hay smells different to lovers and horses."
"Latin","He does not think milk-and-water of himself."
"Latin","He is a fool who spares the children after having killed the father."
"Latin","He is his own enemy."
"Latin","He is full of sweet faults."
"Latin","He is consumed by a vain hope."
"Latin","He is caught in his own snare."
"Latin","Having mastered the lesser difficulties, you will more safely venture on greater achievements."
"Latin","He is a wise man who accommodates himself to all circumstances."
"Latin","He flourishes by hereditary renown."
"Latin","He invokes heaven if a flea bites him."
"Latin","He hath not a farthing left wherewith to buy a rope to hang himself."
"Latin","He has tasted of the lotus."
"Latin","He has sprung up like a mushroom."
"Latin","He has not leisure even to scratch his ears."
"Latin","He has not even a clod of earth left to cover his remains. [A man reduced to extreme poverty.]"
"Latin","He gives well and bountifully who accompanies the gift with a pleasing look."
"Latin","He has left no means untried."
"Latin","He gets his wisdom cheaply who gets it at another's cost."
"Latin","He getteth a great deal of credit, who payeth but a small debt."
"Latin","He gives neither too little, nor too much."
"Latin","He is but a poor husbandman, who sows in sand."
"Latin","Having achieved your purpose, seek not to undo what has been done."
"Latin","Have confidence, but beware in whom."
"Latin","He forgets himself."
"Latin","He goes beyond the bounds."
"Latin","He goes not out of his way that goes to a good inn."
"Latin","He has eyes in the back of his head."
"Latin","He gives too late who waits to be asked."
"Latin, Danish","Benefits grow old betimes, but injuries are long livers."
"Latin, Danish","What the sober man has in his heart, the drunkard has on his lips."
"Latin, Danish","There is nothing new under the sun."
"Latin, Danish","Live according to your means."
"Latin, Danish","Benefits please like flowers, when they are fresh."
"Latin, Danish","Bend the willow while it is young."
"Latin, Danish","Benefits, like flowers, please most when they are fresh."
"Latin, Danish, Dutch","One fool makes many."
"Latin, Danish, Dutch, French, German, Italian","Opportunity makes the thief."
"Latin, Danish, Dutch, French, German, Italian","Opportunity only knocks once."
"Latin, Danish, Dutch, French, German, Italian","Opportunity never knocks twice at any man's door."
"Latin, Dutch","Where the bee sucks honey the spider sucks poison."
"Latin, Dutch, German","When an old dog barks, look out."
"Latin, French","What you are doing do thoroughly."
"Latin, French, German, Italian","Spur not a willing horse."
"Latin, French, Portuguese","The end justifies the means."
"Latin, French, Portuguese","The end crowns the work."
"Latin, German","Hunger is the best cook."
"Latin, German","Boldness in business is the first, second, and third thing."
"Latin, German","Bolt a door with a boiled carrot!"
"Latin, German","Experience is the best teacher."
"Latin, German","One hand washes the other."
"Latin, German","Practise not your art, and 'twill soon depart."
"Latin, German","Praise a fair day at night."
"Latin, German","Boldly ventured is half won."
"Latin, German","The eagle does not catch flies."
"Latin, German","Soon ripe, soon rotten."
"Latin, German, Spanish","Practice makes perfect."
"Latin, Italian","Never refuse a good offer."
"Latin, Italian","The same shoe does not fit every foot."
"Latin, Portuguese","The master's eye makes the horse fat."
"Latvian","A strange glass is emptied in one draught; your own glass not even in ten."
"Latvian","Promised berries will not fill the basket."
"Latvian","Once you've cut the bread, you cannot put it together again."
"Latvian","On the hook of truth only small carp will bite; in the net of falsehood the big salmon are caught."
"Latvian","The ready back gets all the loads."
"Latvian","No matter how much you eat, save some seeds for sowing."
"Latvian","Never wrestle with a strong man nor bring a rich man to court."
"Latvian","Sleep is the poor man's treasure."
"Latvian","Let the devil into church and he will climb into the pulpit."
"Latvian","In dense woods the trees grow straight."
"Latvian","If you can't use your eyes, follow your nose."
"Latvian","Every man forges his own destiny."
"Latvian","As long as you live, you learn."
"Latvian","A smiling face is half the meal."
"Latvian","A good backside will easily find a bench to sit on."
"Latvian","We have rowed well, said the flea as the fishing boat arrives at its mooring."
"Latvian","Your belly is not a book."
"Latvian","Even the devil himself does not know where women sharpen their knives."
"Latvian","A smiling face is half the meal."
"Lebanese","A donkey is a donkey though it may carry the Sultan's treasure."
"Lebanese","Better to have one thousand enemies outside the house than to have one single enemy inside it."
"Lebanese","A wretched year has twenty-four months."
"Lebanese","A dressed up lie is worth more than a badly told truth."
"Lebanese","A dog will always be a dog, even if he is raised by lions."
"Lebanese","A clear conscience shines not only in the eyes."
"Lebanese","A cemetery never refuses a corpse."
"Lebanese","A bite from a loving mouth is worth more than a kiss from any other."
"Lebanese","No matter how fast the poplar grows, it will never reach heaven."
"Lebanese","A polite devil is more agreeable than a rude saint."
"Lebanese","Two things cannot be hidden: being astride a camel and being pregnant."
"Lebanese","Love overlooks defects; hatred magnifies them."
"Lebanese","Nights of pleasure are short."
"Lebanese","No one can give what he does not have."
"Lebanese","Only your nail scratches your skin."
"Lebanese","Some men build a wine cellar after only finding one grape."
"Lebanese","Some men will build a wine cellar when they have found just one grape."
"Lebanese","Talking is not like doing."
"Lebanese","The day will come for the despot to pay."
"Lebanese","Beware of the man to whom you have done a good turn."
"Lebanese","The pot always reveals its contents."
"Lebanese","Lower your voice and strengthen your argument."
"Lebanese","The son of an old man is an orphan, and his wife is a widow."
"Lebanese","Lock your door rather than suspect your neighbor."
"Lebanese","Ticks, bedbugs and a crying child are unendurable."
"Lebanese","The person who knew you when you were young will seldom respect you as an adult."
"Lebanese","We taught them how to beg, they raced us to the gates."
"Lebanese","We traded in shrouds; people stopped dying."
"Lebanese","Whatever your uncle gives you, take."
"Lebanese","When a mouse makes fun of a cat, there is a hole nearby."
"Lebanese","When the angels arrive the demons leave."
"Lebanese","When they came to shoe the horse of the sultan, along comes the beetle and sticks out her foot."
"Lebanese","When you come back from a long journey, offer your family something though it be only a stone."
"Lebanese","When you come back from a trip bring something for the family -- even if it is only a stone."
"Lebanese","When you return from a trip, bring back something for your family -- even if it is only a stone."
"Lebanese","When you're out of luck in the coffin making business, no one dies."
"Lebanese","You become like that which you own."
"Lebanese","You cannot cook your eggs with wind."
"Lebanese","The worst ache is the present ache."
"Lebanese","God hears things upside down."
"Lebanese","Do good and throw it into the sea -- if it is not appreciated by an ungrateful man, it will be appreciated by God."
"Lebanese","Do today what you want ro postpone until tomorrow."
"Lebanese","The son of a son is dear, the son of a daughter a stranger."
"Lebanese","Flies know well the sweet seller's beard."
"Lebanese","It's normal for a sieve to have holes in it."
"Lebanese","Good advice once was worth a camel; now that it is free of charge, no one takes it."
"Lebanese","Have faith in a stone and you will be healed by it."
"Lebanese","He is like a deaf man at a wedding procession."
"Lebanese","He who gossips to you will gossip about you."
"Lebanese","He who has money can eat ice cream in hell."
"Lebanese","He who has money can eat sherbet in hell."
"Lebanese","He who knew you when you were young will not respect you when you grow up."
"Lebanese","He who slaps himself on the face should not cry ouch."
"Lebanese","He who took the donkey up to the roof should bring it down."
"Lebanese","If you beat my drum, I will blow your whistle."
"Lebanese","Do today what you want to postpone until tomorrow."
"Lebanese","He who wants to eat honey should endure the stings."
"Lebanese","It is easier to be a happy bachelor for a year than a widower for a month."
"Lebanese","If you spit in the face of a coward he'll tell you that it's raining."
"Lebanese","If you fall in love let her be a beauty; if you should steal, let it be a camel."
"Lebanese","If you are too sparing with the cat's food, the rats will eat your ears."
"Lebanese","If summer had a mother, she would weep at summer's passing."
"Lebanese","If someone puts their trust in you, don't sever it."
"Lebanese","If at first you don't succeed, try, try, try again."
"Lebanese","If anyone is not willing to accept your point of view, try to see his point of view."
"Lebanese","If a rich man eats a snake, people call it wisdom; if a poor man does the same thing, people call it derangement."
"Lebanese","Hygiene is two thirds of health."
"Lebanese","His brains hang at the top of his fez."
"Lebanese","If you follow the lead of the cockerel, you'll be led to the poulterer."
"Lebanese","If anyone is not willing to accept your point of view, try to see his point of view."
"Lebanese","The worst ache is the present ache."
"Lebanese","He who has money can eat sherbet in hell."
"Lebanese","His brains hang at the top of his fez."
"Lebanese","We traded in shrouds; people stopped dying."
"Lebanese","Lower your voice and strengthen your argument."
"Lebanese","Lock your door rather than accuse your neighbor."
"Lebanese","If at first you don't succeed, try, try, try again."
"Legal","In case of doubt it is best to lean to the side of mercy."
"Legal","In case of doubt it is best to lean to the side of mercy."
"Legal","In case of doubt it is best to lean to the side of mercy."
"Legal Maxim","The partner of my partner is not my partner."
"Lesotho","If the palm of the hand itches it signifies the coming of great luck."
"Lesotho","It is best to bind up the finger before it is cut."
"Liberia","A little rain each day will fill the rivers to overflowing."
"Liberia","The dog's bark is not might, but fright."
"Liberia","Though the palm tree in the jungle is big, who knows how big its yield will be?"
"Liberia","Let your love be like the misty rain, coming softly, but flooding the river."
"Liberia","Do not measure the timbers for your house in the forest."
"Liberia","If you try to cleanse others - like soap, you will waste away in the process!"
"Liberian","A little rain each day will fill the rivers to overflowing."
"Liberian","Do not eat your chicken and throw its feathers in the front yard."
"Liberian","Do not look where you fell, but where you slipped."
"Liberian","Don't look where you fell, but where you slipped."
"Liberian","Good millet is known at the harvest."
"Liberian","If the townspeople are happy, look for the chief."
"Liberian","If the walls were adamant, gold would take the town."
"Liberian","Only when the tree is big and strong can you tether a cow to it."
"Liberian","Though the palm tree in the jungle is big, who knows how big its yield will be?"
"Liberian","To the patient man will come all the riches of the world."
"Liberian","When building a house, don't measure the timbers in the forest."
"Liberian","If the townspeople are happy, look for the chief."
"Liberian","If the walls were adamant, gold would take the town."
"Liberian","Do not look where you fell, but where you slipped."
"Libinza","Rumours generate misunderstandings."
"Libyan","He who searches for pearls should not sleep."
"Libyan","If everyone thought the same way, no goods would ever be sold."
"Libyan","Those who pry into other people's affairs will hear what they do not like."
"Lithuanian","God gave teeth; He will give bread."
"Lithuanian","One day teaches the other."
"Lithuanian","One day teaches the other."
"Lithuanian","Sleep on a bed of silver and dream of gold."
"Lithuanian","Smoke in your own country is purer than fire in a foreign land."
"Lithuanian","Smoke spreads further than the fire."
"Lithuanian","The beauty of a housewife will not put more fat into the soup."
"Lithuanian","The calf isn't even born yet and there he is sharpening his carving knife."
"Lithuanian","The older the goat the tighter the rope."
"Lithuanian","There is an herb for every kind of sickness but not for death."
"Lithuanian","There is no need to whip docile horses."
"Lithuanian","Offer the lazy man an egg, and he'll want you to peel it for him."
"Lithuanian","To a starving man bread is sweeter than honey."
"Lithuanian","The breath of others always stinks."
"Lithuanian","To be without learning, is to be without eyes."
"Lithuanian","Who gives, has."
"Lithuanian","With the intellect of another you won't get very far."
"Lithuanian","Without gold even the daylight is dark."
"Lithuanian","Without learning, without eyes."
"Lithuanian","Without pains no gains."
"Lithuanian","Words do not fill your purse."
"Lithuanian","You are learning all your life and you die stupid."
"Lithuanian","You can't blow against the wind."
"Lithuanian","There is no worse devil than a farmer who wants to be a gentleman."
"Lithuanian","As one devil goes out, another one comes in."
"Lithuanian","A man without a beard is like bread without a crust."
"Lithuanian","The church is nearby, God is far away."
"Lithuanian","All that glitters is not gold, and all that is sticky is not tar."
"Lithuanian","Offer the lazy an egg, and they'll want you to peel it for them."
"Lithuanian","Dogs cannot make dreams come true -- people must do that."
"Lithuanian","Don't be too bold, or you will burn your eyes; but don't be too slow, or you will lose your share."
"Lithuanian","Don't laugh when your neighbors oven is on fire."
"Lithuanian","Even the hardest of winters fears the spring."
"Lithuanian","Even the smallest drop is appreciated by the drunkard."
"Lithuanian","Fear and love do not go together."
"Lithuanian","For every head a hat."
"Lithuanian","It is difficult to teach a cow to climb a tree."
"Lithuanian","A silent pig digs the deepest root."
"Lithuanian","From a big cloud comes little rain."
"Lithuanian","It is easier to give orders than to work."
"Lithuanian","If you run from a wolf, you may run into a bear."
"Lithuanian","If you go to bed hungry, you'll wake up without having slept."
"Lithuanian","If it weren't for sorrow and bad times, every day would be Christmas."
"Lithuanian","Good eyes don't fear smoke."
"Lithuanian","Gold glitters even in the mud."
"Lithuanian","God gave teeth; He will give bread."
"Lithuanian","Not all that glitters is gold; not all that is sticky is tar."
"Lithuanian","A silent pig digs the deepest root."
"Lithuanian","God gave teeth; He will give bread."
"Lithuanian","Offer the lazy an egg, and they'll want you to peel it for them."
"Lithuanian","Without learning, without eyes."
"Lithuanian","Without pains no gains."
"Lon","He who treats you as himself does you no injustice."
"Lula","One speaks badly of the absent but fears the present."
"Luo","Those who do not listen to the voice of the elderly are like trees without roots."
"Luo","A child's lie is like a dead fish in a pond that in the end, always comes to the surface, explains his mother."
"Luo","You do not beat a drum with one finger."
"Luo","Hunger pushes the hippopotamus out of the water."
"Luo","The turtle does not suffer when running."
"Luo","The earth is not an inheritance of our fathers, nor one for our sons."
"Luo","The chief's wisdom is a mesh of old stories, good and bad."
"Luo","Once the mushroom has sprouted from the earth, there is no turning back."
"Luo","Happiness is like a field you can harvest every season."
"Luo","Disease and disasters come and go like rain, but health is like the sun that illuminates the entire village."
"Luo","Alone a youth runs fast, with an elder slow, but together they go far."
"Luo","A village without elderly is unhappy."
"Luo","A fool is like a wanderer lost on a path."
"Luo","A friend is someone who walks by your side."
"Luxembourgan","A woman is as old as she wishes to tell you."
"Luxembourgan","A woman is at her strongest when she faints."
"Luxembourgan","A woman is as old as she wants to tell you she is."
"Luxembourgan","You will catch no birds with a club."
"Luxembourgan","A man's eyes are for seeing, a woman's for being seen."
"Luxembourgan","A woman who likes to wash will find water."
"Luxembourgan","Your wife and your wheelbarrow are two things that you should never lend to anyone."
"Luxembourgan","Words are but dwarfs, examples are giants."
"Luxembourgan","Truth is what women do not tell."
"Luxembourgan","To the fiancT -- milk; to the bride -- butter; to the husband -- cheese."
"Luxembourgan","The wife cries before the wedding, the husband after."
"Luxembourgan","Keep your eye on girls that don't tell their mothers everything."
"Luxembourgan","In the eyes of its mother every turkey is a swan."
"Lybian","He who searches for pearls should not sleep."
"Lybian","He who searches for pearls should not sleep."
"Maaori","Many stars cannot be concealed by a small cloud."
"Maaori","A bird which eats berries can be caught, but not a bird that eats wood."
"Maaori","A brave man who climbs trees is food for their roots."
"Maaori","The blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church."
"Maaori","Let someone else acknowledge your virtues."
"Maaori","Only the foolish visit the land of the cannibals."
"Maaori","Persist as resolutely as you persist in eating."
"Maaori","The block of wood should not dictate to the carver."
"Maaori","The more you ask how much longer it will take, the longer the journey seems."
"Maaori","In a very old tree, you may be certain that the sapwood is on the outside, while the heartwood is in the middle."
"Maasai","Lonely is one."
"Maasai","The neck cannot become the head."
"Maasai","The elephant does not get tired of his tusks."
"Maasai","Life has seasons."
"Maasai","One finger does not kill a louse."
"Maasai","One house cannot be divided."
"Maasai","The buttocks never mistake the ground."
"Maasai","The cow has no owner."
"Maasai","The daily path never ends."
"Maasai","Man is always beaten by his own tricks."
"Maasai","The eye cannot penetrate darkness."
"Maasai","The eye of God is large."
"Maasai","It is the belly which daily gives thanks."
"Maasai","The man does not see the brisket he is eating."
"Maasai","May you be as big as the white mountain."
"Maasai","The night has ears."
"Maasai","The village which is not discussed is not built."
"Maasai","The withered tree will destroy the healthy tree when it falls down."
"Maasai","The words of the elders are blessed."
"Maasai","You cannot force water up a hill."
"Maasai","You know what to say, but you do not know what you might be told."
"Maasai","The forest has ears."
"Maasai","A zebra takes its stripes wherever it goes."
"Maasai","One head cannot hold all wisdom."
"Maasai","It is impossible to find a man who has everything, but it is possible tofind one who enjoys the things he has."
"Maasai","A proverb does not answer itself."
"Maasai","A lion can run faster than we can, but we can run farther."
"Maasai","Be as familiar with observation as you are with the place you live."
"Maasai","Daylight follows a dark night."
"Maasai","Do not allow the belly to make you useless."
"Maasai","Do not sweep someone else's home while yours is dirty."
"Maasai","Don't fight a lion with a stick."
"Maasai","Don't pinch the heifer's vagina."
"Maasai","Hide the mouthfuls of food."
"Maasai","A particle of goat dung cannot be eaten by a large gourd."
"Maasai","Don't praise tomorrow because tomorrow praises itself."
"Maasai","Home is not far away when you are alive."
"Maasai","It is better to be poor and live long than to be rich and die young."
"Maasai","He who is unable to dance says that the yard is stony."
"Maasai","He is like a hyena's sinew."
"Maasai","Happiness is as good as food."
"Maasai","Friendship likes distance."
"Maasai","Foolishness first, then wisdom."
"Maasai","Don't reply one wrong with another."
"Macedonian","If my neighbor is happy, my own work will go easier, too."
"Macedonian","What one fool can ensnare, not a 1000 sages can fix."
"Macedonian","Think twice, say once."
"Macedonian","The brain is not in the pocket, but in the head."
"Macedonian","Where force rules, justice does not exist."
"Macedonian","Feed a dog to bark at you."
"Macedonian","Enjoy yourself, for there is nothing in the world we can call our own."
"Macedonian","A bear that dances in your neighbor's house might soon dance in yours."
"Macedonian","A good friend is recognized in times of trouble."
"Macua","Walking in two is medicine."
"Madagascan","Love is like a rice plant; transplanted, it can grow elsewhere."
"Madagascar","Sorrow is like a precious treasure, shown only to friends."
"Madagascar","Life is a shadow and a mist; it passes quickly by, and is no more."
"Madagascar","Love is like young rice: transplanted, still it grows."
"Madagascar","Don't take another mouthful before you have swallowed what is in your mouth."
"Madagascar","Don't kick a sleeping dog."
"Madagascar","Cross the river in a crowd and the crocodile won't eat you."
"Madagascar","Indecision is like the stepchild: if he doesn't wash his hands, he is called dirty; if he does, he is wasting the water."
"Madagascari","The dog's bark is not might but fright."
"Madagascari","The dog's bark is not might but fright."
"Madagasy","Disgraced like a man whose own pet bites him."
"Madagasy","You think you are strong like the corn plant, yet the bean vine is already choking you."
"Madagasy","An egg does not fight a rock."
"Madagasy","Do not kick away the canoe which helped you to cross the river."
"Madagasy","Do not scare the birds you are going to shoot."
"Madagasy","Do not treat your loved one like a swinging door: you are fond of it but you push it back and forth."
"Madagasy","Iron does not clang by itself."
"Madagasy","Roosters' tail feathers: pretty but always behind."
"Madagasy","The lazy man who goes to borrow a spade says, ""I hope I will not find one."""
"Madagasy","A canoe does not know who is king. When it turns over, everyone gets wet."
"Madagasy","Do not kick away the canoe which helped you to cross the river."
"Madagasy","Disgraced like a man whose own pet bites him."
"Madagasy","An egg does not fight a rock."
"Madagasy","Do not scare the birds you are going to shoot."
"Madagasy","Do not treat your loved one like a swinging door: you are fond of it but you push it back and forth."
"Madagasy","Iron does not clang by itself."
"Madagasy","Roosters' tail feathers: pretty but always behind."
"Madagasy","The lazy man who goes to borrow a spade says, ""I hope I will not find one."""
"Madagasy","A canoe does not know who is king. When it turns over, everyone gets wet."
"Madagasy","You think you are strong like the corn plant, yet the bean vine is already choking you."
"Malabar","Anger is more hurtful than the injury that caused it."
"Malabar","Anger is a stone cast into a wasp's nest."
"Malabar","Anger is as a stone cast into a wasp's nest."
"Malabar","Anger is a stone cast into a wasp's nest."
"Malabar","Anger is as a stone cast into a wasp's nest."
"Malabar","Anger is more hurtful than the injury that caused it."
"Malagasy","A patient that can swallow food makes the nurse doubtful."
"Malagasy","Roosters' tail feathers: pretty but always behind."
"Malagasy","Other people's children cause your nostrils to flare."
"Malagasy","People are like eels in the water, they wander this way and that."
"Malagasy","People are like plants in the wind: they bow down and rise up again."
"Malagasy","Poverty won't allow him to lift up his head; dignity won't allow him to bow it down."
"Malagasy","Only thin dogs become wild."
"Malagasy","Power corrupts."
"Malagasy","Sadness is a valuable treasure -- only discovered in people you love."
"Malagasy","She is as undecided as an orphan: if she does not wash her hands, she will be told that she is a dirty child; if she washes her hands she will be told that she is wasting water."
"Malagasy","Sick people are like kings."
"Malagasy","One does not like hot, the other does not like cold; make it tepid to make an agreement."
"Malagasy","The barking dog gives you no power -- it gives you fear."
"Malagasy","Love is just like rice -- plant it elsewhere and it grows."
"Malagasy","The child of a rat is a rat."
"Malagasy","Sorrow is like rice in an attic: you use a little every day and at the end it is all gone."
"Malagasy","The food which is prepared has no master."
"Malagasy","It is not the fire in the fireplace which warms the house, but the couple who get along well."
"Malagasy","It is the softness of the lime that is fatal to the bird."
"Malagasy","Let your love be like drizzle: it comes softly, but still swells the river."
"Malagasy","Let your love be like the misty rains, coming softly, but flooding the river."
"Malagasy","Life is a shadow and a mist; it passes quickly by, and is no more."
"Malagasy","Marriage is not a tight knot, but a slip knot."
"Malagasy","Living is not a reward and dying is no crime."
"Malagasy","One can't give a grasshopper to a child if one has not caught it yet."
"Malagasy","Love is like young rice: transplanted, still it grows."
"Malagasy","The dog's bark is not might but fright."
"Malagasy","May your friendship not be like a stone: if it breaks you cannot put the pieces together. May it be like iron: when it breaks, you can weld the pieces back together."
"Malagasy","Money is like a guest: it comes today, leaves tomorrow."
"Malagasy","Nothing is so difficult that diligence cannot master it."
"Malagasy","Nothing is so full of victory as patience."
"Malagasy","Like the chameleon, one eye on the future, one eye on the past."
"Malagasy","Words are like the spider's web: a shelter for the clever ones and a trap for the not-so-clever."
"Malagasy","When you are looking for a country with no tombstones you will find yourself in the land of cannibals."
"Malagasy","Whichever hand is cut, the whole body feels the pain."
"Malagasy","Without the forest, there will be no more water, without water, there will be no more rice."
"Malagasy","Words are like eggs: when they are hatched they have wings."
"Malagasy","Words are like eggs: when they are hatched they have wings."
"Malagasy","The eel that got away is as fat as your thigh."
"Malagasy","Words are like newly hatched eggs: they already have wings."
"Malagasy","Wealth is like hair in the nose: it hurts to be separated whether from a little or from a lot."
"Malagasy","Words go further than bullets."
"Malagasy","You can catch a cricket in your hand but its song is all over the field."
"Malagasy","You can't blame the axe for the noise made by the chicken you are about to slaughter."
"Malagasy","You can't catch a louse with one finger."
"Malagasy","You may well have caught a bird, but have you a fire to roast it on?"
"Malagasy","You think you are strong like the corn plant, yet the bean vine is already choking you."
"Malagasy","Words are like eggs: when they are hatched they have wings."
"Malagasy","They who drink the water from the Manangareza river always come back to Madagascar."
"Malagasy","The earth is a giant cooking pot and men are the meat therein."
"Malagasy","The earth is God's bride -- she feeds the living and cherishes the dead."
"Malagasy","It is better to refuse than to accept and not to go."
"Malagasy","The end of an ox is beef, and the end of a lie is grief."
"Malagasy","If love is torn apart you cannot stitch the pieces together again."
"Malagasy","The king inherits a country -- the people only hard work."
"Malagasy","When the ducks are quacking the frogs take it as a warning."
"Malagasy","The sin for which you repent is the father of virtue; but a virtue that you talk about, is the mother of sin."
"Malagasy","When the crocodiles leave, the caymans come."
"Malagasy","Those who know how to swim are the ones who sink."
"Malagasy","Those who rush things too much, without reflection, can be surpassed by those who take their time."
"Malagasy","To deny God's existence is like jumping with your eyes closed."
"Malagasy","To love the law is to lose money."
"Malagasy","Truth is like sugar cane; even if you chew it for a long time, it is still sweet."
"Malagasy","The dying person cannot wait for the shroud to be woven."
"Malagasy","The lazy man who goes to borrow a spade says, ""I hope I will not find one."""
"Malagasy","Crosses are ladders that lead to heaven."
"Malagasy","If we don't fight we remain equals, if we do fight then one of us wins."
"Malagasy","Better to lose a little money than a little friendship."
"Malagasy","Beware of french people who pretend to quarrel with each other: they will join together to fight you."
"Malagasy","By getting angry, one shows that she is wrong."
"Malagasy","By getting angry, you show you are wrong."
"Malagasy","Behave like the chameleon: look forward and observe behind."
"Malagasy","Cross the river among a crowd and the crocodile won't eat you."
"Malagasy","Be like the mouth and the hand: when the hand is hurt the mouth blows on it, when the mouth is hurt the hand rubs it."
"Malagasy","Crosses are ladders which lead to heaven."
"Malagasy","Crows are black everywhere."
"Malagasy","Crows are never the whiter for washing themselves."
"Malagasy","Crows bewail the dead sheep, and then eat them."
"Malagasy","Debts make the thief."
"Malagasy","Disgraced like a man whose own pet bites him."
"Malagasy","Cross in a crowd and the crocodile won't eat you."
"Malagasy","A patient that can swallow food makes the nurse doubtful."
"Malagasy","When the king reigns it is thanks to the people; when a river sings it's thanks to the stones."
"Malagasy","If it is not a boy it will be a girl, says the fortune-teller."
"Malagasy","A canoe does not know who is king. When it turns over, everyone gets wet."
"Malagasy","A chicken that hatches a crocodile's eggs is looking for trouble."
"Malagasy","A little rain each day will fill the rivers to overflowing."
"Malagasy","Better to be guilty in the eyes of men than in the eyes of God."
"Malagasy","A man who lets his problems get the better of him is like a man who divorces his wife the first time she makes him angry."
"Malagasy","Do not be like a miser who saves for those who will bury him."
"Malagasy","A starving crocodile is never pleasant."
"Malagasy","Advice is a stranger; if he's welcome he stays for the night; if not, he leaves the same day."
"Malagasy","All who live under the sky are woven together like one big mat."
"Malagasy","An egg does not fight a rock."
"Malagasy","Ants can attack with a grain of rice."
"Malagasy","As long as the mouse keeps still you can be sure that the cat stays on guard."
"Malagasy","A man finds many faults in a woman when he wants to divorce, and finds many charms in one's fianc6e."
"Malagasy","However little food we have, we'll share it even if it's only one locust."
"Malagasy","Flatters, like rats, tickle and then bite."
"Malagasy","Flint and gunpowder: every time they meet there is an explosion."
"Malagasy","Friendship reminds us of fathers, love of mothers."
"Malagasy","From all the fish in the pot you can only make one soup."
"Malagasy","Govern a country as you would roast a crocodile on a spit."
"Malagasy","Distracted by what is far away, he does not see his nose."
"Malagasy","He is truly hungry who accepts defeat in a fight over meat."
"Malagasy","Done in by his own trade like a water merchant in the rain."
"Malagasy","Idleness moves so slowly that it will be overtaken by misery."
"Malagasy","If the hill is on fire the grasshoppers are roasted."
"Malagasy","If you sell a drum in your own village, you get the money and keep the sound."
"Malagasy","If you try to cleanse others -- just like soap, you will waste away in the process."
"Malagasy","In a fight with a fool it's a wise man who quits."
"Malagasy","Indecision is like the stepchild: if he doesn't wash his hands, he is called dirty; if he does, he is wasting the water."
"Malagasy","Greet everyone cordially when you don't know who your in-laws are going to be."
"Malagasy","Don't be so much in love that you can't tell when it's raining."
"Malagasy","Iron does not clang by itself."
"Malagasy","Do not boast about your wealth if you are a father."
"Malagasy","Do not kick away the canoe which helped you to cross the river."
"Malagasy","Do not measure up the wood before the tree is cut down."
"Malagasy","Do not scare the birds you are going to shoot."
"Malagasy","Do not treat your loved one like a swinging door: you are fond of it but you push it back and forth."
"Malagasy","Even the dead in their family vaults enjoy being in large company."
"Malagasy","Don't be like a shadow: a constant companion, but not a comrade."
"Malagasy","Even the bottom of a basket finds something to hold."
"Malagasy","Don't help a bull out of a ditch, for when he's out he'll butt you."
"Malagasy","Don't kick a sleeping dog."
"Malagasy","Don't praise your wife before a year."
"Malagasy","Don't take a second mouthful before you have swallowed the first."
"Malagasy","Don't think there are no sharks because the water is calm."
"Malagasy","Divorce a young woman and you make another man happy."
"Malagasy","Do not waste your time looking for soft ground to drive your spade in."
"Malagasy","When you treat someone like a wild cat, he will steal your chickens."
"Malagasy","Nothing is so difficult that diligence cannot master it."
"Malagasy","By getting angry, you show you are wrong."
"Malagasy","Cross in a crowd and the crocodile won't eat you."
"Malagasy","Crosses are ladders which lead to heaven."
"Malagasy","Crows are never the whiter for washing themselves."
"Malagasy","Crows bewail the dead sheep, and then eat them."
"Malagasy","Distracted by what is far away, he does not see his nose."
"Malagasy","A patient that can swallow food makes the nurse doubtful."
"Malagasy","It is better to refuse than to accept and not to go."
"Malagasy","Crosses are ladders that lead to heaven."
"Malagasy","Nothing is so full of victory as patience."
"Malagasy","One does not like hot, the other does not like cold; make it tepid to make an agreement."
"Malagasy","Poverty won't allow him to lift up his head; dignity won't allow him to bow it down."
"Malagasy","Power corrupts."
"Malagasy","Sick people are like kings."
"Malagasy","Sorrow is like rice in an attic: you use a little every day and at the end it is all gone."
"Malagasy","Words are like eggs: when they are hatched they have wings."
"Malagasy","Do not be like a miser who saves for those who will bury him."
"Malagasy","Crows are black everywhere."
"Malawi","You cannot pick up a pebble with one finger."
"Malawian","Rocks need no protection from the rain."
"Malawian","The most fragrant of flowers are eaten by the green-fly."
"Malawian","The more shoots, the more leaves."
"Malawian","The less soup, the more spoons."
"Malawian","The day will come when cats have horns and Dutchmen will be circumcised."
"Malawian","The cradle is rocked but the baby is pinched."
"Malawian","The body pays for a slip of the foot and gold pays for a slip of the tongue."
"Malawian","The betrothed of good is evil; the betrothed of life is death; the betrothed of love is divorce."
"Malawian","The teeth sometimes bite the tongue."
"Malawian","One muddy buffalo makes the whole herd dirty."
"Malawian","One little arrow does not kill a serpent."
"Malawian","One day of rain far surpasses a whole year of drought."
"Malawian","Low is the mountain, high the expectations."
"Malawian","Leave her now and then if you would really love your wife."
"Malawian","The body is killed by the mouth."
"Malawian","When a dead tree falls, the woodpeckers profit from his death."
"Malawian","You can measure the depth of the sea but what about a man's heart?"
"Malawian","Where there is sugar, there are mice."
"Malawian","Where there is sea there will always be pirates."
"Malawian","When you are crossing over a river you might be eaten by crocodiles, but don't let yourself get bitten by the little fish."
"Malawian","When the sky falls down, the earth shall melt."
"Malawian","The proportion of things thrill the eye."
"Malawian","When it's warm the pea loses its pod."
"Malawian","The smallest pepper is hottest."
"Malawian","We all will die, but our tombs will differ."
"Malawian","Though near shore, you're still in the ocean."
"Malawian","Though a tree grows ever so high, the falling leaves return to its roots."
"Malawian","Those who are at one regarding food are at one in life."
"Malawian","The widow is just as fiery as the horse that threw her."
"Malawian","It is the fate of the coconut husk to float, for the stone to sink."
"Malawian","When the curry is tasty, the rice is hard."
"Malawian","As a child, is a man wrapped in his mother's womb; as an adult, in tradition; comes death, and he is wrapped in earth."
"Malawian","Do not be like the mosquito that bites the owner of the house."
"Malawian","Crime leaves a trail like a water beetle; like a snail, it leaves its silver track; like a horse-mango, it leaves its smell."
"Malawian","Crabs teach their offspring to walk straight."
"Malawian","Clapping with the right hand only will not make a noise."
"Malawian","Buffaloes are held by ropes, man by his words."
"Malawian","Kick away the ladder and your feet are left dangling."
"Malawian","As if it weren't bad enough to fall, the ladder lands on top of you."
"Malawian","Don't think back on someone whose name you forgot, he is probably someone else by now."
"Malawian","Anything with scales counts as a fish."
"Malawian","Ants die in sugar."
"Malawian","An upstart is a sparrow eager to marry a hornbill."
"Malawian","A piece of incense may be as large as the knee, but unless burned emits no fragrance."
"Malawian","A diplomat should be yielding and supple as a creeper that can be bent but not broken."
"Malawian","A deer tethered with a golden chain can escape to the forest to eat grass."
"Malawian","Blow your horn in a herd of elephants; crow in the company of cockerels; bleat in a flock of goats."
"Malawian","Fish don't get caught in deep water."
"Malawian","If you have, give; if you need, seek."
"Malawian","If you dip your arm into the picklepot let it be up to the elbow."
"Malawian","If you are going to bathe, get thoroughly wet."
"Malawian","However big the whale may be, the tiny harpoon can rob him of life."
"Malawian","He can see a louse as far away as China but is not aware of an elephant on his nose."
"Malawian","Don't dirty the place where you have eaten."
"Malawian","Go away and the conversation changes."
"Malawian","Don't teach the tiger cub to eat meat."
"Malawian","Fear to let fall a drop, will always make you spill a lot."
"Malawian","Every man is a prince in his own bed."
"Malawian","Every joy will follow in grief's footsteps."
"Malawian","Don't use an axe to do embroidery."
"Malawian","Don't think there are no crocodiles just because the water's calm."
"Malawian","Just as a bamboo cane forms a round jet of water, so taking counsel together makes men of one mind."
"Malawian","Gold is a debt we can repay, but kindness not till our dying day."
"Malay","Though a tree grows so high, the falling leaves return to the root."
"Malay","After Falling, The ladder falls on you."
"Malay","The turtle lays thousands of eggs without anyone knowing, but when the hen lays an egg, the whole country is informed."
"Malay","On which soil we stand on, that is where we carry the weight of the sky."
"Malay","One can pay back the loan of gold, but one dies forever in debt to those who are kind."
"Malay","Prepare the umbrella before it rains."
"Malay","Smack a tray of water and you get to wash your face."
"Malay","The earth compared to the sky."
"Malay","The existence of the sea means the existence of pirates."
"Malay","The more shoots, the more leaves."
"Malay","No matter how high the squirrel jumps, it will eventually fall onto the ground."
"Malay","The Potato grows in silence, The iron corrodes in silence."
"Malay","Think before you leap."
"Malay","A heavy load should be borne together as well as a light load."
"Malay","Though a tree grow ever so high, the falling leaves return to the ground."
"Malay","A fool is like the big drum that beats fast but does not realize its hollowness."
"Malay","Tigers die and leave their stripes, but humans die leaving their names."
"Malay","To bend a bamboo, start when it is a shoot."
"Malay","United we stand, divided we fall."
"Malay","Where there is sugar, there are bound to be ants."
"Malay","You can't get at the precious sago without first breaking the bark."
"Malay","The more sorrow one encounters, the more joy one can contain."
"Malay","Ants die in sugar."
"Malay","Though a tree grows so high, the falling leaves return to the root."
"Malay","Milk belongs to the cow, but the bull cow gets the publicity."
"Malay","An unasked excuse infers transgression."
"Malay","As long as you happen to put your hand in a container full of pickles, might as well dip your whole arm in the container."
"Malay","Because of a drop of blue dye,a whole pot of milk is contaminated."
"Malay","Because of lack of talent in dancing, the floor is blamed."
"Malay","Bit by bit, in the end it becomes a hill."
"Malay","calf is given, but then thigh is requested."
"Malay","Just because you are irritated by a mosquito, you burn the mosquito curtain."
"Malay","Do not think that placid water is without crocodiles."
"Malay","Gold rain drops on a foreign country,wherelse rain of stones drops on our country,but our country is better."
"Malay","If there is no reason, why would the tempua bird nest on the low branches?"
"Malay","If you have, give; if you lack, seek."
"Malay","If you want something, you'll do a thousand things to obtain it. But if you don't want something, you'll give a thousand excuses to refrain from it."
"Malay","Like the peanut, who forgets its shell."
"Malay","Like a monkey who eats belacaan."
"Malay","An ox with long horns, even if he does not butt, will be accused of butting."
"Malay","Clapping with the right hand only will not produce a noise."
"Malay","The existence of the sea means the existence of pirates."
"Malay","A fool is like the big drum that beats fast but does not realize its hollowness."
"Malay","An ox with long horns, even if he does not butt, will be accused of butting."
"Malay","An unasked excuse infers transgression."
"Malay","You can't get at the precious sago without first breaking the bark."
"Malay","Where there is sugar, there are bound to be ants."
"Malay","The more sorrow one encounters, the more joy one can contain."
"Malay","Smack a tray of water and you get to wash your face."
"Malay","One can pay back the loan of gold, but one dies forever in debt to those who are kind."
"Malay","If you have, give; if you lack, seek."
"Malay","Ants die in sugar."
"Malay","Clapping with the right hand only will not produce a noise."
"Malay","If there is no reason, why would the tempua bird nest on the low branches?"
"Malay","To bend a bamboo, start when it is a shoot."
"Malayan","Don't think there are no crocodiles because the water is calm."
"Malayan","Though a tree grow ever so high, the falling leaves return to the ground."
"Malayan","Trumpet in a herd of elephants; crow in the company of cocks; bleat in a flock of goats."
"Malayan","The turtle lays thousands of eggs without anyone knowing, but when the hen lays an egg, the whole country is informed."
"Malayan","The more sorrow one encounters, the more joy one can contain."
"Malayan","Though a tree grow ever so high, the falling leaves return to the ground."
"Malayan","The existence of the sea means the existence of pirates."
"Malayan","The deep sea can be fathomed, but who knows the hearts of men?"
"Malayan","The more shoots, the more leaves."
"Malayan","Though a tree grows so high, the falling leaves return to the root."
"Malayan","To bend a bamboo, start when it is a shoot."
"Malayan","Where there's a carcass, there will be vultures."
"Malayan","You can't get at the precious sago without first breaking the bark."
"Malayan","Smack a tray of water and you get to wash your face."
"Malayan","An unasked excuse infers transgression."
"Malayan","Where there is sugar, there are bound to be ants."
"Malayan","One who sits by the well will never go thirsty."
"Malayan","One can pay back the loan of gold, but one dies forever in debt to those who are kind."
"Malayan","If you have, give; if you lack, seek."
"Malayan","If there is no reason, why would the tempua bird nest on the low branches?"
"Malayan","He who has learned how to steal, must learn how to hang."
"Malayan","Don't think there are no crocodiles because the water is calm."
"Malayan","Do not measure another man's coat on your body."
"Malayan","Clapping with the right hand only will not produce a noise."
"Malayan","Ants die in sugar."
"Malayan","An ox with long horns, even if he does not butt, will be accused of butting."
"Malayan","A fool is like the big drum that beats fast but does not realize its hollowness."
"Malayan","Though change be no robbery."
"Malayan","Anything with scales counts as fish."
"Malayan","Trumpet in a herd of elephants; crow in the company of cocks; bleat in a flock of goats."
"Malayan","Don't think there are no crocodiles because the water is calm."
"Malayan","Trumpet in a herd of elephants; crow in the company of cocks; bleat in a flock of goats."
"Malayan","Though change be no robbery."
"Malayan","Though a tree grows so high, the falling leaves return to the root."
"Malayan","One who sits by the well will never go thirsty."
"Malayan","Though a tree grow ever so high, the falling leaves return to the ground."
"Malaysian","No matter how big the whale is, a tiny harpoon can kill him."
"Malaysian","Do not be tricked into thinking that there are no crocodiles just because the water is still."
"Malaysian","To truly love your wife, leave her alone every once in a while."
"Malaysian","No matter how big the whale is, a tiny harpoon can kill him."
"Malaysian","If you plant grass, you won't get rice."
"Malaysian","If you are too shy to ask, you might lose your way. When you go away, the conversation changes."
"Malaysian","Feasting is the physician's harvest."
"Malaysian","Fear to let spill a drop and you will spill a lot."
"Malaysian","Fear to let fall a drop and you will spill a lot."
"Malaysian","Don't use an axe to embroider."
"Malaysian","Don't think there are no crocodiles because the water's calm."
"Malaysian","The body pays for a slip of the foot, and gold pays for a slip of the tongue."
"Malaysian","Don't use an axe to embroider."
"Malaysian","Feasting is the physician's harvest."
"Malaysian","Fear to let fall a drop and you will spill a lot."
"Malaysian","The body pays for a slip of the foot, and gold pays for a slip of the tongue."
"Malian","You cannot wage war without the sound of gunpowder."
"Malian","One does not give without a motive."
"Malian","You must decide where you are going in the evening, if you intend to leave early in the morning."
"Malian","When mosquitoes work, they bite and then they sing."
"Malian","The hyena chasing two antelopes at the same time will go to bed hungry."
"Malian","Slowly but surely the excrement of foreign poets will come to your village."
"Malian","Life is like a ballet performance -- danced only once."
"Malian","If you've nothing to do, dig a spinster's grave."
"Malian","A woman who offers sex to everyone will get kicked by everyone."
"Malian","A turtle is not proud of his long neck."
"Malian","You will never drown where you always take a bath."
"Malian","A man is what he thinks."
"Malian","A deaf man may not have heard the thunder but he surely will see the rain."
"Malian","One does not give a gift without a motive."
"Malian","One does not give without a motive."
"Malinke","Everybody loves a fool, but nobody wants him for a son."
"Maltese","Burn a good maltese; let alone a bad one."
"Maltese","Do good and forget it; do ill and remember it."
"Maltese","Death spares no one."
"Maltese","Death said to the man with his throat cut, ""How ugly you look."""
"Maltese","Death rights everything."
"Maltese","Charm is stronger than beauty."
"Maltese","Better an old but wise man than a young but foolish man."
"Maltese","Better an ache than a tear."
"Maltese","Chasten thy son while there is hope."
"Maltese","Don't marry a good-looking bride for you'll have to watch her."
"Maltese","Enjoy yourself, for there is nothing in the world we can call our own."
"Maltese","Good health is the sister of beauty."
"Maltese","He is a fool who does not consider his own interests."
"Maltese","He who does not fart lets out silent ones."
"Maltese","He who doesn't fart, lets out silent ones."
"Maltese","He who follows his wife's advice will never see the face of god."
"Maltese","He who goes to bed hungry dreams of pancakes."
"Maltese","Believe not a swearing man and a weeping woman."
"Maltese","A man and a sheaf of straw make two."
"Maltese","Far from the eye, far from the heart."
"Maltese","A woman has even cheated the devil."
"Maltese","A cry and a sniff, and all comes to naught."
"Maltese","A cry, a sniff, and all comes to naught."
"Maltese","A cup must be bitter that a smile will not sweeten."
"Maltese","A good mule can be sold in his own territory."
"Maltese","A handful of dust, four capitals and shit on all i possessed."
"Maltese","A kiss without a hug is like a flower without the fragrance."
"Maltese","A lovely girl attracts attention by her good looks, an ugly girl by the help of a mirror."
"Maltese","He who makes a fool of himself on account of a woman is well nigh ruined."
"Maltese","A neck without a head, buttocks without a hole and a girl without shame are not worth admiring or marrying."
"Maltese","A woman can raise you to heaven and can dump you in hell."
"Maltese","At night all women are alike."
"Maltese","A woman has got seven souls."
"Maltese","A woman is like a lemon; you squeeze her and throw her away."
"Maltese","A woman who does not understand by a look of the eye won't understand by a box of the fist."
"Maltese","A womans tongue cracks bones."
"Maltese","After bad weather comes fine weather."
"Maltese","After taking ninety-nine years to climb a stairway, the tortoise falls and says there is a curse on haste."
"Maltese","All is well that ends well."
"Maltese","An oven whose door does not shut does not bake its loaves."
"Maltese","Asking is the sister of knowing."
"Maltese","A man's heart is a forest."
"Maltese","The weather vane will not work without wind."
"Maltese","Today you; tomorrow me."
"Maltese","Today me, tomorrow you."
"Maltese","Time gives good advice."
"Maltese","There is no rose without thorns."
"Maltese","The world teaches you more than your task-master."
"Maltese","The world is nonsense: what looks beautiful in the morning looks ugly in the evening."
"Maltese","He who has had no experience of evil cannot know the worth of what is good."
"Maltese","The world is a wheel and men are the fellowes, and the devil prowling around spins."
"Maltese","What was is no more, what if is just if."
"Maltese","The wallet of the timid man neither increases nor decreases."
"Maltese","The wagtail hops and flaps its wings, but the male dove feeds and coos."
"Maltese","The seller has one eye, the buyer, one hundred."
"Maltese","The person who thinks about his own grief forgets about the grief of others."
"Maltese","The one who has had no experience of evil cannot know the worth of what is good."
"Maltese","The law is not made for the rich."
"Maltese","The world is nonsense: what looks beautiful in the morning looks ugly in the evening."
"Maltese","With money you can build a road in the sea."
"Maltese","Your soul to God, your body to dust, your property to your relatives, because thus it has been found written."
"Maltese","You must kill the spider to get rid of the cobweb."
"Maltese","You cannot serve God and the devil."
"Maltese","You can't buy heaven with money."
"Maltese","Women have got long hair and short sense."
"Maltese","Without money you can neither hug nor kiss."
"Maltese","We are all equal before death."
"Maltese","With money you can build a? road in the sea."
"Maltese","We are all flesh and blood."
"Maltese","Where the heart loves, there the legs walk."
"Maltese","When the husband is a hen and the wife is a cock, the house is topsy-turvy."
"Maltese","When the cock is euphoric, the brain is amnesic."
"Maltese","When it's raining and the sun shines -- then a Turk is born."
"Maltese","When a miser dies, the heirs feel as happy as when they kill a pig."
"Maltese","Whatsoever a new bride touches is fragrant."
"Maltese","The good die first: And those, whose hearts are dry as summer dust, Burn to the socket."
"Maltese","With money you can make a road in the sea."
"Maltese","Its better to drive four horses than a donkey."
"Maltese","The good die young."
"Maltese","Marriage is a lick of honey and a barrel of bitter."
"Maltese","Man is a faggot of thorns."
"Maltese","Malta would be a nice place, if every knight were a tree."
"Maltese","Love is blind."
"Maltese","Long skirts carry dust, but short skirts carry away souls."
"Maltese","Marriage without lovemaking means sad consequences and sorrow."
"Maltese","Its the fool wholl get you in trouble."
"Maltese","Marry a man older than you and not a younger man, who will tire of you."
"Maltese","In this world a pint of sweetness and a barrel of bitterness."
"Maltese","In the world there are more insane than sane."
"Maltese","If you don't eat you will die; overeating will shorten your life."
"Maltese","If the man lets a woman know what he has got in his saving box, she will marry him for his money."
"Maltese","If god doesnt take a lawyer, the devil will haul him away."
"Maltese","I am dead. It is as if everybody were dead. Let the man left behind shut the door if he wants to."
"Maltese","Dont make sauce before catching fish."
"Maltese","Life is a farce."
"Maltese","Only death is certain."
"Maltese","He who loves suffers."
"Maltese","The good cow gets sold in its own country."
"Maltese","The evil weed produces the largest number of weeds."
"Maltese","The cat and the rat never thought alike."
"Maltese","Seven women in their right senses are surpassed by a mad man."
"Maltese","See a sheaf of corn in the morning and a young woman in the evening."
"Maltese","Marriage without love-making means sad consequences and sorrow."
"Maltese","Only fools and horses work."
"Maltese","The good die first: And those, whose hearts are dry as summer dust, Burn to the socket."
"Maltese","One man's fault is another man's lesson."
"Maltese","One man's death is another man's life."
"Maltese","Once you put on? the wedding ring you must submit to all that is necessary."
"Maltese","No one takes away anything with him."
"Maltese","Mountain does not meet mountain, but a face meets another face."
"Maltese","Money has wings."
"Maltese","Money begets money, and fleas beget fleas."
"Maltese","Prickly pear trees dont produce peaches."
"Maltese","Every bird is proud of its feathers."
"Maltese","An oven whose door does not shut does not bake its loaves."
"Maltese","Today me, tomorrow you."
"Maltese","A cup must be bitter that a smile will not sweeten."
"Maltese","A cry, a sniff, and all comes to naught."
"Maltese","Your soul to God, your body to dust, your property to your relatives, because thus it has been found written."
"Maltese","You must kill the spider to get rid of the cobweb."
"Maltese","You can't buy heaven with money."
"Maltese","What was is no more, what if is just if."
"Maltese","With money you can build a road in the sea."
"Maltese","Where the heart loves, there the legs walk."
"Maltese","When a miser dies, the heirs feel as happy as when they kill a pig."
"Maltese","Today you; tomorrow me."
"Maltese","Time gives good advice."
"Maltese","The wallet of the timid man neither increases nor decreases."
"Maltese","The good die young."
"Maltese","The good die first: And those, whose hearts are dry as summer dust, Burn to the socket."
"Maltese","Death rights everything."
"Maltese","A kiss without a hug is like a flower without the fragrance."
"Maltese","We are all equal before death."
"Maltese","Chasten thy son while there is hope."
"Maltese","The good cow gets sold in its own country."
"Maltese","Death said to the man with his throat cut, ""How ugly you look."""
"Maltese","Enjoy yourself, for there is nothing in the world we can call our own."
"Maltese","Far from the eye, far from the heart."
"Maltese","Only fools and horses work."
"Maltese","No one takes away anything with him."
"Maltese","One man's death is another man's life."
"Maltese","One man's fault is another man's lesson."
"Maltese","Only death is certain."
"Maltese","Mountain does not meet mountain, but a face meets another face."
"Maltese","Charm is stronger than beauty."
"Mamprussi","Bad water also quenches the fire."
"Mamprussi","An eye is small but its usefulness is great."
"Mamprussi","If patience hides something, anger won't search and get."
"Mamprussi","Impatience with your brother is in the flesh, it doesn't reach the bone."
"Mamprussi","A bird flies high above and its funeral is performed on the ground."
"Mandingo","Death is like a dress that, at some point or another, everyone has to wear."
"Mandingo","Before killing the chicken carefully observe the character of your guest."
"Mandingue","An empty sack cannot stand."
"Mandingue","Also the black cow produces white milk."
"Mannar","Learning is a golden urn that can never be stolen."
"Mannar","Learning is a golden urn that can never be stolen."
"Manx","The remembrance of the heart is better than the remembrance of the head."
"Manx","Praise the fine day in the evening."
"Manx","The more a man catches the more he'll have."
"Manx","The man who minds his own business well has always enough to do."
"Manx","The man who looks after his own work has plenty to do to keep everything right."
"Manx","Wit bought is the wit best, If it be not bought too dear."
"Manx","The little hemlock is sister to the great hemlock."
"Manx","She's for knitting and sewing and scraping potatoes, and you should be glad to catch the like."
"Manx","Strike while the iron is hot."
"Manx","Store is no sore."
"Manx","Poor, poor for ever."
"Manx","The crooked bannock straightens the body."
"Manx","The coroner and the lawyer grow fat on the quarrels of fools."
"Manx","The black ox never stamps on his own foot."
"Manx","Ten thousand of the greatest faults in our neighbours is of less consequence than the smallest of our own."
"Manx","The greatest pleasure in life lies in doing that which people say we cannot do."
"Manx","While seeking new friends, hold to the old."
"Manx","When the wind blows the sea is moving."
"Manx","When the sun shines is the time to make up hay."
"Manx","When men are rightly occupied their happiness grows of their work."
"Manx","When a man wants a wife, he wants but a wife; But when he has got a wife, he wants a great deal."
"Manx","What's taken well is better than what's well done."
"Manx","What must be, will be."
"Manx","The weaknesses of old age are no fit cause for laughter, since they must be our own portion at the end."
"Manx","To share is sweet, but to pay is bitter."
"Manx","The smaller the company the bigger the share."
"Manx","Whoever is durable, the aged will not be durable."
"Manx","Choose him for a friend who incites you to good works."
"Manx","Wisdom is folly unless a wise man guides it."
"Manx","Where there are women there is talk, where there are geese there is keck, where there are tailors there are crabs, where there are carpenters, there are chips."
"Manx","They live like cat and dog."
"Manx","The tree is known by its fruit."
"Manx","Two faggots will burn better than one."
"Manx","An eel by his tail, an Irishman at his word."
"Manx","Make hay while the sun shines."
"Manx","A friend by you is better than a brother far off."
"Manx","A rich man without liberality is like a tree without fruit."
"Manx","A short courtship is the best courtship."
"Manx","A stitch in due time saves nine."
"Manx","Many a man has been guarding the bush and another plucking the fruit."
"Manx","After spring-tide, neap."
"Manx","Learning is fine clothes for the rich man, and riches for the poor man."
"Manx","As poor as a church mouse."
"Manx","Avoid all evil"
"Manx","Better leave something to an enemy than borrow from a friend."
"Manx","Better to be poor and honest than to be rich and lying."
"Manx","Between two stools is a fall."
"Manx","Black as is the raven, he'll get a partner."
"Manx","A wise man will not receive rebuke."
"Manx","Eaten food is forgotten."
"Manx","Near is my shirt, but nearer is my skin."
"Manx","Maybe the last dog is catching the hare."
"Manx","Many men many minds."
"Manx","Your first care must be the care of your own heart."
"Manx","Man has his own will, but woman has her own way."
"Manx","Foolish spending is a father of poverty."
"Manx","Listen with each ear, then to judgment."
"Manx","Eaten bread is forgotten."
"Manx","Let every bird hatch its own eggs."
"Manx","Give a piece to the raven and he'll come again."
"Manx","How good to be forward, but how bad to be too forward."
"Manx","If you would grow poor without knowing it, put your helpers to work and go to sleep"
"Manx","It is easy to bake where there is plenty of meal."
"Manx","It's good to be forward, but bad to be too impudent."
"Manx","Never marry an heiress, unless her father has been hanged. She is sure to be proud."
"Manx","Don't tell me what I was, but tell me what I am."
"Manx","Blood is thicker than water."
"Manx","Hot broth softens hard bread."
"Maori","A brave man who climbs trees is food for their roots."
"Maori","The ocean gives and sustain life to the worthy."
"Maori","Though my present be small, my love goes with it."
"Maori","Turn your face to the sun and the shadows fall behind you."
"Maori","When a net is worn out, it is thrown away on the shore."
"Maori","Many stars cannot be concealed by a small cloud."
"Maori","The land is a mother that never dies."
"Maori","The dancing of Tanerore has begun."
"Maori","The blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church."
"Maori","The block of wood should not dictate to the carver."
"Maori","Persist as resolutely as you persist in eating."
"Maori","Only the foolish visit the land of the cannibals."
"Maori","The more you ask how much longer it will take, the longer the journey seems."
"Maori","He who stands up will live, He who sits down will perish."
"Maori","Many make the descent to eternal darkness but few ascend to heaven."
"Maori","Like the migrating Maruiwi, who all disappeared into the world of spirits Dead like the moa."
"Maori","Let someone else acknowledge your virtues."
"Maori","Land is permanent, man disappears."
"Maori","Join those who can join sections of a canoe."
"Maori","My totara sapling so suddenly broken off."
"Maori","In a very old tree, you may be certain that the sapwood is on the outside, while the heartwood is in the middle."
"Maori","A bird which eats berries can be caught, but not a bird that eats wood."
"Maori","Desolate darkeness, desolate brightness."
"Maori","Care for the land, Care for the people, Go forward."
"Maori","Ask me what is the greatest thing in the world, I will reply: It is people, it is people, it is people."
"Maori","A woman in the house is like a kaka in the forest."
"Maori","A whale's tooth in a whale's jaw."
"Maori","When the belly is full, the talk is good."
"Maori","The land is a mother that never dies."
"Maori","Turn your face to the sun and the shadows fall behind you."
"Martinican","Chickens don't praise their own soup."
"Martinican","Child's pig, father's pork."
"Martinican","Chickens don't praise their own soup."
"Martinican","Child's pig, father's pork."
"Martiniquais","You jump up, but you come down all the same."
"Martiniquais","Where there is a bone, there are dogs."
"Martiniquais","When you bump into someone, begging your pardon doesn't put it right."
"Martiniquais","Thieves don't like to see their comrades carrying the bags."
"Martiniquais","The sheep drinks but it's the goat that gets drunk."
"Martiniquais","The good dog never gets a good bone."
"Martiniquais","The blow is taken on the nose but it's the eyes that cry."
"Martiniquais","Not everybody who wears spurs is a jockey."
"Martiniquais","If you are born fat you will not die thin."
"Martiniquais","If an ox doesn't know the size of his arse he won't eat an apricot stone."
"Martiniquais","Chickens can't speak well of their own soup."
"Martiniquais","Breasts are never too heavy for the chest."
"Martiniquais","A dog doesn't like bananas, but he can't bear to think that chickens eat them."
"Martinique","When a ship is broken, the accident does not prevent others from sailing."
"Massai","Pots take turns to sit on the fire."
"Massai","You cannot tickle a hungry person."
"Massai","The elephant does not get tired of its tusks."
"Massai","The cow has no owner."
"Massai","Pots take turns to sit on the fire."
"Massai","The cow has no owner."
"Massai","The elephant does not get tired of its tusks."
"Massai","You cannot tickle a hungry person."
"Mauritania","He who begins a conversation, does not foresee the end."
"Mauritania","Two eyes see better than one."
"Mauritania","Too large a morsel chokes the child."
"Mauritania","One must talk little, and listen much."
"Mauritania","Not all the flowers of a tree produce fruit."
"Mauritania","He who loves money must labor."
"Mauritania","Before eating, open thy mouth."
"Mauritania","A cutting word is worse than a bowstring; a cut may heal, but the cut of the tongue does not."
"Mauritania","He who wears too fine clothes, shall go about in rags."
"Mauritanian","If you watch your pot, your food will not burn."
"Mauritanian","Before eating, open thy mouth."
"Mauritanian","Before one cooks, one must have the meat."
"Mauritanian","He who begins a conversation, does not foresee the end."
"Mauritanian","He who has no spoon will burn his hands."
"Mauritanian","He who loves money must labor."
"Mauritanian","A stone from the hand of a friend is an apple."
"Mauritanian","He whose clothes are too fine, shall go about in rags."
"Mauritanian","A cutting word is worse than a bowstring; a cut may heal, but the cut of the tongue does not."
"Mauritanian","It is only the water that is spilled; the bowl is not broken."
"Mauritanian","Not all the flowers of a tree produce fruit."
"Mauritanian","Not all the tree's blossoms will bear fruit."
"Mauritanian","One must talk little, and listen a lot."
"Mauritanian","Open your mouth before you eat."
"Mauritanian","Too large a morsel chokes the child."
"Mauritanian","Two eyes see better than one."
"Mauritanian","He who wears too fine clothes, shall go about in rags."
"Medical","If you hear hoof beats, look for horses, not zebras."
"Mennonite","I will charge thee nothing but the promise that thee will help the next man thee finds in trouble."
"Mexican","Better a donkey that tarries than one that won't carry its load."
"Mexican","Blood boils without flame."
"Mexican","A lamp in the street, obscurity at home."
"Mexican","A jealous lover becomes an indifferent spouse."
"Mexican","A good resolution is like an old horse, which is often saddled but rarely ridden."
"Mexican","A good man finds his native soil in every country."
"Mexican","A good cock will crow on every dungheap."
"Mexican","A golden cage is still a cage."
"Mexican","A bird in hand is worth more than a hundred in flight."
"Mexican","An idle mind is the devil's playground."
"Mexican","As to tastes, nothing is written."
"Mexican","A man without happiness is either not good or not well."
"Mexican","Avarice commonly occasions injury to the person who displays it."
"Mexican","A person born to be a flower pot will not go beyond the porch."
"Mexican","Better a steady drip than a sudden deluge."
"Mexican","Better a stride that will last than a trot that tires fast."
"Mexican","An empty bag will not stay up."
"Mexican","Better alone unattached than unsuitably matched."
"Mexican","Better one timely squawk than constant talk."
"Mexican","Better to be alone than in bad company."
"Mexican","Better to be red-faced once than 100 times purple."
"Mexican","Better to die on your feet than to live on your knees."
"Mexican","Between the beginning and the end there is always a middle."
"Mexican","Calm seas make sorry sailors."
"Mexican","By the claw you may know the lion."
"Mexican","As you see yourself, I once saw myself; as you see me now, you will be seen."
"Mexican","Do not refuse the body what it asks for."
"Mexican","Everyone has their own way of killing fleas."
"Mexican","Even waking up early doesn't hurry the dawn."
"Mexican","Even the saints' patience has its limits."
"Mexican","Even the best horse needs to be spurred."
"Mexican","Envious persons never compliment, they only swallow."
"Mexican","Early bird catches the worm."
"Mexican","Duty before devotion."
"Mexican","Don't do today what you can put off until tomorrow."
"Mexican","Don't do good that could look bad."
"Mexican","Don't cut your cactus in a neighbor's garden."
"Mexican","A man forewarned is equal to two."
"Mexican","Don't be afraid of the chili pepper, even though it's so red."
"Mexican","Do good and don't worry to whom."
"Mexican","Conversation is food for the soul."
"Mexican","Cleanliness is the luxury of the poor."
"Mexican","An ant on the move does more than a dozing ox."
"Mexican","An answer without a question signals guilt without question."
"Mexican","Ambition never has it's fill."
"Mexican","Although a monkey be dressed in silk, she is still a monkey."
"Mexican","All time spent angry is time lost being happy."
"Mexican","Agreements should be clearly expressed, and chocolate should be served thick."
"Mexican","A word and a stone once thrown away cannot be returned."
"Mexican","Everyone is as god made him and very often worse."
"Mexican","A secret between two is god's secret; a secret between three is known to all."
"Mexican","Don't break down, rope; this is the last jerk."
"Mexican","The lazy is a brother of the begger."
"Mexican","The deaf does not listen, but invents well."
"Mexican","The devil is wiser not because he's the devil, but because he's old."
"Mexican","The Devil knows more because he's old than because he's the devil."
"Mexican","The eleventh commandment: Thou shalt not contradict."
"Mexican","The fewer donkeys, the more corncobs."
"Mexican","The fewer the donkeys, the more ears of corn."
"Mexican","The frog squashed the hardest croaks the louder."
"Mexican","The good judge starts at home."
"Mexican","The heir's tears are but a mask to disguise his joy."
"Mexican","The house does not rest upon the ground, but upon a woman."
"Mexican","The hypocrite is known by his actions, not by his clothes."
"Mexican","The ill-mannered child finds a father wherever he goes."
"Mexican","Old debts are not paid, and new ones are left to get old."
"Mexican","The lap of its owner is security enough for a cat."
"Mexican","The clown is best in his own country, and the gentleman anywhere."
"Mexican","The lazy work twice as much."
"Mexican","The lion believes that everyone shares his state of mind."
"Mexican","The lover of a student does not always become the wife of a graduate."
"Mexican","The more one looks, the less one sees."
"Mexican","The most desirable woman is always the one who belongs to someone else."
"Mexican","The mule wasn't born wild, the stick made her that way."
"Mexican","The one who went to La Villa, lost his/her chair."
"Mexican","The person who asks for little deserves nothing."
"Mexican","The prickly pear has company only when it bears fruit."
"Mexican","The rat that knows but one hole is soon caught by the cat."
"Mexican","The rat who only knows about one hole will soon be caught by the cat."
"Mexican","The right time to dine is: for the rich man, when he is hungry; and for the poor, when he has something to eat."
"Mexican","The road to hell is strewn with roses."
"Mexican","The insane are told they're right."
"Mexican","Since excuses were invented, no one is ever in the wrong."
"Mexican","Once the dog's dead, the rabies end."
"Mexican","One man driven by distress does as much as thirty."
"Mexican","One needn't study to become a fool."
"Mexican","One string is good enough to a good musician."
"Mexican","One timely shout is better than constant talk."
"Mexican","Only men with thick lips should smoke a cigar."
"Mexican","Only the pallbearers know the weight of the dead."
"Mexican","Parrots are green everywhere; the idiot loses wherever he is."
"Mexican","Pay what you owe and you will know what you are worth."
"Mexican","Pray indeed, but get to work."
"Mexican","Respect for the rights of others is peace."
"Mexican","Revenge is a dish that tastes better cold."
"Mexican","Rocking chairs make long-tailed cats uneasy."
"Mexican","The dead to his burial ground, and the living to his fooling around."
"Mexican","Tell me what you want to buy and I will tell you what you are."
"Mexican","The throat must pay for what the tongue may say."
"Mexican","The closed mouth doesn't catch any flies."
"Mexican","The brave one lives as long as the cowards lets him."
"Mexican","The brave man lives until the coward wants."
"Mexican","The bowman who is a bad marksman has a lie ready."
"Mexican","Self-praise amounts to self-condemnation."
"Mexican","Ten who shout obtain more than ten who remains silent."
"Mexican","Shrimp that sleeps is carried by the tide."
"Mexican","Talking about bulls is not the same as facing them in the ring."
"Mexican","Stupidity closes the doors of kindness."
"Mexican","Speak plain -- call bread bread, and wine wine."
"Mexican","Speak plain -- call bread bread, and wine wine."
"Mexican","Sorrow also sings, when it runs to deep to cry."
"Mexican","The crime accuses itself."
"Mexican","The best bullfighter is the one in the box seats."
"Mexican","With poison, one drop is enough."
"Mexican","The seagull thinks it is an act of kindness to give the fish a lift in the air."
"Mexican","When the river sounds, it's because it carries water."
"Mexican","When two paupers get married it is the beginning of a generation of beggars."
"Mexican","When you see that someone is cutting your neighbor's beard, start wetting yours."
"Mexican","When young, it's all dreams; when old, all memories."
"Mexican","Where one door closes, another one opens."
"Mexican","Where the river makes a sound, you can be sure it's carrying water."
"Mexican","Where there are trees there are no builders."
"Mexican","Where there are weapons, there will be wars."
"Mexican","Where there was fire, ashes remain."
"Mexican","Where there's a will there's a way."
"Mexican","While life yet lasts, laughter and molasses."
"Mexican","While young, it's all dreams; when old, all memories."
"Mexican","When it's time to fry the beans, you can't do without lard."
"Mexican","Yes, old: But never sexually cold."
"Mexican","Everyone is master of their own fear."
"Mexican","Youth is a folly; maturity, a struggle; old age a remorse."
"Mexican","Your hometown is like a small fatherland."
"Mexican","You must not tell all that you know, nor judge all that you see, if you would live in peace."
"Mexican","You judge the way you live."
"Mexican","Who wakes up early gets the God's help."
"Mexican","You cannot worship an unknown saint."
"Mexican","With patience and a bit of spittle, the elephant picks up the ant so little."
"Mexican","Wounds from the knife are healed, but not those from the tongue."
"Mexican","Worth makes the man and want of it the fellow."
"Mexican","Works, and not words, are the proofs of love."
"Mexican","Words of the mouth are like a stone in a sling."
"Mexican","Words and feathers are carried away by the wind."
"Mexican","When in Rome, do as the Romans do."
"Mexican","You don't look a gift horse in the mouth."
"Mexican","Time heals and then it kills."
"Mexican","The dog that has his bitch in town never barks well."
"Mexican","The tongue slow and the eyes quick."
"Mexican","The whole arena tells them to kill the bull, yet the bull should kill no one."
"Mexican","There is more time than life."
"Mexican","There is no choosing between two things of no value."
"Mexican","There is no evil that comes without something good."
"Mexican","There's no better mirror than an old friend."
"Mexican","There's no better sauce than a good appetite."
"Mexican","There's no life so tiring as one of doing nothing."
"Mexican","There's no reason to walk on the branches when the trunk is so thick."
"Mexican","There's no worse deaf man than the man who doesn't want to listen."
"Mexican","There's no worse struggle than one that never begins."
"Mexican","Those who rescue are always crucified."
"Mexican","When on an unenjoyable walk, walk faster."
"Mexican","True friendship is one soul shared by two bodies."
"Mexican","When in doubt of what is right, consult your pillow overnight."
"Mexican","When hunger comes through the door, love jumps out the window."
"Mexican","We were born to die anyhow."
"Mexican","We are all made of the same clay, but not from the same mold."
"Mexican","Walk your own road and bear your own load."
"Mexican","Though a cage may be made of gold, it is still a cage."
"Mexican","Trust your best friend as you would your worst enemy."
"Mexican","Though the cage be made of gold, it's still a prison."
"Mexican","Tree that grows crooked will never be straightened - bad habits learned early in life are hard to get rid of later."
"Mexican","To win a dispute is to gain a chicken and lose a cow."
"Mexican","To the satiated bird, cherries taste bitter."
"Mexican","To the hungry man no bread is bad."
"Mexican","To the dead, internment and, to the living, enjoyment orto the dead, the grave and, to the living, chicken."
"Mexican","The sin carries its own penance."
"Mexican","Truth suffers but never perishes."
"Mexican","He who lingers around will hear bad things spoken about him."
"Mexican","He whoa breeds crows, will have his eyes taken out- you harvest what you planted."
"Mexican","He who doesn't look ahead remains behind."
"Mexican","He who doesn't speak will get no help from God."
"Mexican","He who doesn't speak-up is never heard."
"Mexican","He who follows his own advice must take the consequences."
"Mexican","He who gets drenched at dawn has the rest of the day to dry out."
"Mexican","He who gives what he can is no further obligated."
"Mexican","He who grabs much grasps little."
"Mexican","He who has a hundred and one pesos, and owes a hundred and two, let him commend himself to god."
"Mexican","He who is a parrot is green wherever he is."
"Mexican","He who is accustomed to evil is offended by good."
"Mexican","He who is anxious to secure the best tends to get stuck with the worst of the rest."
"Mexican","He who is ignorant at home is ignorant abroad."
"Mexican","He who does not praise a thing is he who buys it."
"Mexican","He who really wants to die will not complain if he is buried standing up."
"Mexican","He who wants everything will lose everything."
"Mexican","He who walks with wolves learns to howl."
"Mexican","He who talks too much errs much."
"Mexican","He who suffers many evils is comforted with just a little good."
"Mexican","He who strikes first, strikes twice."
"Mexican","He who keeps a secret prevents much mischief."
"Mexican","He who speaks too much is tiresome; he who speaks too little is boring."
"Mexican","He who knows nothing neither doubts nor fears anything."
"Mexican","He who punishes one chastises a hundred."
"Mexican","He who never goes to your house doesn't want you in his."
"Mexican","He who makes more of you than usual either designs to cheat you or wants your assistance."
"Mexican","He who loiters hears ill spoken of himself."
"Mexican","He who lives with hope dies happy."
"Mexican","He who does not intend to pay is not troubled in making his bargain."
"Mexican","He who spits in the air will have it fall back on his face."
"Mexican","God did not give wings to scorpions."
"Mexican","Everyone is the son of his own works."
"Mexican","Everyone knows where his own shoe pinches him."
"Mexican","Everyone makes firewood of a fallen tree."
"Mexican","Everyone stones the tree that bears fruit."
"Mexican","Everything wears away from use."
"Mexican","Evil falls on him who goes to seek it."
"Mexican","Eyes that don't see have less to lament."
"Mexican","False hope kills more readily than bitter truth."
"Mexican","Fear doesn't travel by donkey."
"Mexican","For every dog there is an appropriate stick."
"Mexican","For whoever wants the blue sky, the price is high."
"Mexican","Foreign bread is good for your son."
"Mexican","Fortune favors the brave."
"Mexican","He who does not venture has no luck."
"Mexican","He is not fat -- it is his belt that doesn't fit."
"Mexican","He who does not honor his wife dishonors himself."
"Mexican","Of doctor and poet, musician and madman, we each have a trace."
"Mexican","He who covers you discovers you."
"Mexican","The envious never give praise, they only take it in."
"Mexican","He who asks a question does not err easily."
"Mexican","Fortune is like a wall that falls on those who lean on it."
"Mexican","He is not to blame who does his duty."
"Mexican","From the fallen tree everyone makes firewood."
"Mexican","Great deeds are reserved for great men."
"Mexican","God speaks for the man who holds his peace."
"Mexican","God is bigger than your problems."
"Mexican","God helps the early riser."
"Mexican","God does not hear you if you do not speak."
"Mexican","He who divides and shares is left with the best share."
"Mexican","He loses his thanks who promises and delays."
"Mexican","Necessity is mother of every invention."
"Mexican","Let not the tongue speak what the head may have to pay for."
"Mexican","Hell must be in bad condition when even the devil stays out."
"Mexican","Let water run that you do not intend to drink."
"Mexican","Lions believe that everyone shares their state of mind."
"Mexican","Look at the man you serve and you will see how much you are esteemed."
"Mexican","Love is blind -- but not the neighbors."
"Mexican","Love is too rare to be lost on jealousy."
"Mexican","Make deaf ears to stupid words."
"Mexican","Malice leaves reality behind."
"Mexican","Man can adjust to anything except not eating."
"Mexican","Marriage and shroud, from heaven will come."
"Mexican","Marriage is the only war in which you sleep with the enemy."
"Mexican","Men meet, only mountains do not."
"Mexican","Keep your counsel arrested until it's requested."
"Mexican","No one knows for whom they work."
"Mexican","He who assists everybody assists nobody."
"Mexican","Not all that glitters is gold."
"Mexican","Nobody wants to buy a sleeping horse."
"Mexican","Nobody lives in another person's head."
"Mexican","Nobody leaves this world alive."
"Mexican","Money is a good servant, but an evil master."
"Mexican","No one trips with the same stone twice."
"Mexican","Necessity is a great teacher."
"Mexican","No one can bind himself to perform the impossible."
"Mexican","No man's a prophet in his own land."
"Mexican","No fate is worse than a life without a love."
"Mexican","Never confuse gratitude with love."
"Mexican","Never ask God to give you anything; ask Him to put you where things are."
"Mexican","Let him attack who will; the strong wait."
"Mexican","No road is safer than the one just robbed."
"Mexican","If the hope is lost, it's better to hurry."
"Mexican","If you're going to rest under the sun, it's better to keep walking."
"Mexican","Let the water you cannot drink flow by."
"Mexican","If you want to live in peace, you must not tell everything that you know, nor judge everything that you see."
"Mexican","If you see your neighbor has lost his beard, you'd best start lathering yours."
"Mexican","If you give away what you have, you will not yearn for what you see."
"Mexican","Jealous about honor and careless about providing."
"Mexican","If the river sounds, it's because it has water."
"Mexican","In the matter of pigs, all is money, and in the matter of money, all are pigs."
"Mexican","If it is not stolen, it is a legacy."
"Mexican","If it does not stink, it is not a foot."
"Mexican","I never ask God to give me anything; I only ask him to put me where things are."
"Mexican","Hunger brings people down, but pride can help them get up."
"Mexican","How beautiful to watch the rain and not get wet."
"Mexican","Hope dies last of all."
"Mexican","If you don't honor your wife, you are dishonoring yourself."
"Mexican","It's not enough to know how to ride -- one must also know how to fall."
"Mexican","It's not the fault of the mouse, but of the one who offers him the cheese."
"Mexican","It's not the fault of the indian, but of he who makes of the indian his friend."
"Mexican","If you would be a good judge, pay attention to what everyone says."
"Mexican","Not so much that it burns the saint, nor so little that it doesn't illuminate him."
"Mexican","In this treacherous world there is neither truth nor lie; everything is like the color of the crystal through which you gaze."
"Mexican","It's easy to trust a cat once you put the cream out of reach."
"Mexican","It's better to be poor, than to live alone."
"Mexican","It's a bad start on the week for the man who is hanged on a monday."
"Mexican","It is not enough to know how to ride you must also know how to fall."
"Mexican","It is in our work that we discover love and faith."
"Mexican","It is better to be a fool than obstinate."
"Mexican","In youth we learn, in old age we understand."
"Mexican","It's not the able that give, but the desirous."
"Mexican","A person born to be a flower pot will not go beyond the porch."
"Mexican","The house does not rest upon the ground, but upon a woman."
"Mexican","The right time to dine is: for the rich man, when he is hungry; and for the poor, when he has something to eat."
"Mexican","It's not the fault of the mouse, but of the one who offers him the cheese."
"Mexican","We were born to die anyhow."
"Middle Eastern","The greatest tranquility is when we desire nothing."
"Minah","The best blessing for a good harvest is a pumpkin full of sweat."
"Miscellaneous","Do not answer a fool according to his folly, or you will be like him yourself."
"Miscellaneous","A fool finds pleasure in evil conduct, but a man of understanding delights in wisdom."
"Miscellaneous","When friends ask, there is no tomorrow."
"Miscellaneous","A fool gives full vent to his anger, but a wise man keeps himself under control."
"Miscellaneous","A fool shows his annoyance at once, but a prudent man overlooks an insult."
"Miscellaneous","A fool finds no pleasure in understanding but delights in airing his own opinions."
"Miscellaneous","A fool finds pleasure in evil conduct, but a man of understanding delights in wisdom."
"Miscellaneous","Do not answer a fool according to his folly, or you will be like him yourself."
"Mohawk","A good chief gives, he does not take."
"Mohawk","Life is both giving and receiving."
"Mohawk","Remember that your children are not your own, but are lent to you by the creator."
"Mohawk","When an elder speaks, be silent and listen."
"Mongo","It is easier to transport an ant hill than exercise authority in a village."
"Mongo","When the leg does not walk, the stomach does not eat."
"Mongo","The sun shines during the day, not at night."
"Mongo","Roots do not know what a leaf has in mind."
"Mongo","A dog does not enter a home where they suffer from hunger."
"Mongo","A knife does not recognise its owner."
"Mongo","A knife does not fear thorns, a woman fears man."
"Mongo","A hammer does not work with iron."
"Mongo","A stolen object does not fill ones heart with joy."
"Mongo","The hand assists the foot, but the foot cannot do the same."
"Mongolian","The meat-biting tooth is in the mouth; the man-biting tooth is in the soul."
"Mongolian","The living are denied a table; the dead get a whole coffin."
"Mongolian","The fish sees the bait not the hook; a man sees not the danger -- only the profit."
"Mongolian","The donkey recognizes the tracks of a horse."
"Mongolian","Once you have locked your door you are the emperor in your own domain."
"Mongolian","Rich is he who has no debts, fortunate he who lives without handicap."
"Mongolian","One idiot can ask more questions than ten wise men can answer."
"Mongolian","The more you listen the more you give yourself room for doubt."
"Mongolian","Who cleans up the dirt washes away happiness."
"Mongolian","The distance between heaven and earth is no greater than one thought."
"Mongolian","The supreme treasure is knowledge, the middle treasure is children, and the lowest treasure is material wealth."
"Mongolian","The winner has many friends, the loser has good friends."
"Mongolian","There are men who walk through the woods and see no trees."
"Mongolian","Times are not always the same; the grass is not always green."
"Mongolian","Two bears in one cave will not end up well."
"Mongolian","Union is source of success."
"Mongolian","Of the good we have an understanding, for fools we keep a stick upstairs."
"Mongolian","While horse is strong travel to see places."
"Mongolian","If you are sick, think about your life; if you are better, think about your gold."
"Mongolian","Wise men talk about ideas, intellectuals about facts, and the ordinary man talks about what he eats."
"Mongolian","You can't put two saddles on the same horse."
"Mongolian","While father alive to get to know people."
"Mongolian","Don't undo your bootlaces until you have seen the river."
"Mongolian","A cat likes to eat fresh fish but it will not go into the water."
"Mongolian","A donkey that carries me is worth more than a horse that kicks me."
"Mongolian","A man fails seven times and rises eight times."
"Mongolian","A tiger wearing a bell will starve."
"Mongolian","If you want to build high, you must dig deep."
"Mongolian","Don't look for bad things in the good that you do."
"Mongolian","Men and women sleep on the same pillow, but they have different dreams."
"Mongolian","Each country's customs are different, just as each meadow's grass is different."
"Mongolian","Even foul water will put out a fire."
"Mongolian","It is easier to catch an escaped horse than to take back an escaped word."
"Mongolian","Do not start if afraid, once begun do not be afraid."
"Mongolian","It's difficult to take a wolf cub without bringing in the whole pack."
"Mongolian","Even foul water will quench fire."
"Mongolian","In a good word there are three winters' warmth; in one malicious word there is pain for six frosty months."
"Mongolian","If you endeavour, the fate will favour you."
"Mongolian","If you are going to steal bells plug your ears."
"Mongolian","If mind is clean, fate is good."
"Mongolian","He who wants to build high must dig deep."
"Mongolian","He who drinks, dies; he who does not drink, dies as well."
"Mongolian","Greed keeps men forever poor, even the abundance of this world will not make them rich."
"Montenegro","Winter either bites with its teeth or lashes with its tail."
"Montenegro","Winter finds out what summer lays up."
"Montenegro","Winter either bites with its teeth or lashes with its tail."
"Montenegro","Winter finds out what summer lays up."
"Moorish","If you have the moon, ignore the stars."
"Moorish","Repentance for silence is better than repentance for speaking."
"Moorish","One lie can fill a sack; a second will empty it again."
"Moorish","Men have thought about their marriage a whole year long -- and it lasts but one night."
"Moorish","If a person is away, his right is away."
"Moorish","It's easy to say ""May Allah roast the lion's mother,"" when the lion isn't there."
"Moorish","Hypocrisy is the mother of peace."
"Moorish","A forest would want to be burned by its own wood."
"Moorish","He who is afraid of a thing gives it power over him."
"Moorish","He who fears something gives it power over him."
"Moorish","Every beetle is a gazelle in the eyes of its mother."
"Moorish","Repentance for silence is better than repentance for speaking."
"Moorish","If a person is away, his right is away."
"Moorish","Every beetle is a gazelle in the eyes of its mother."
"Moroccan","One who prevades the great universe is seen by none unless a man knows the unfolding of love."
"Moroccan","One who is not moved by words is not moved by the stick."
"Moroccan","One who does not travel will not know that value of men."
"Moroccan","One man's shit is anothers factory of bliss."
"Moroccan","Often the best way to give oneself what one lacks is to take from oneself what one has."
"Moroccan","Open your door to a good day and prepare yourself for a bad one."
"Moroccan","Nothing dries sooner than a tear."
"Moroccan","Pleasant words are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul and healing to the bone."
"Moroccan","No land without stones, no meat without bones."
"Moroccan","Nothing is true, all is permisable."
"Moroccan","Over truth there is light."
"Moroccan","Meat and mass never hindered man."
"Moroccan","Plans fail for lack of counsel but with many advisors, succeed."
"Moroccan","Man alone is the measure of all things."
"Moroccan","Reading books removes sorrows from the heart."
"Moroccan","Salt will never be worm-eaten."
"Moroccan","Slowness comes from God and haste from the Devil."
"Moroccan","Some will learn through pain and sorrow, others through joy and laughter, so it is written."
"Moroccan","Speech and action make the perfect conduct."
"Moroccan","Strike a match above the sea of opinions and the fish all swim away."
"Moroccan","Strong attachment is difficult -- it makes one mad or kills."
"Moroccan","Perform good deeds; you will not regret them."
"Moroccan","Kill two birds with the one stone."
"Moroccan","In every false step there is something good."
"Moroccan","In his heart a man may plan his course but God determines his every step."
"Moroccan","In Morocco never be surprised. If you see a donkey flying, just say Allah is capable of anything."
"Moroccan","In movement, there is blessing."
"Moroccan","In the eyes of its mother every beetle is a gazelle."
"Moroccan","Instruct a man, you instruct an individual. Instruct a woman, you instruct a nation."
"Moroccan","Instruction in youth is like engraving in stone."
"Moroccan","It is better to be the object of jealousy, than of pity."
"Moroccan","It is worse to be wounded by words than a sword."
"Moroccan","Many are the roads that do not lead to the heart."
"Moroccan","Kif is like fire; a little warms, a great deal burns."
"Moroccan","Many hands make light work."
"Moroccan","Kindness can pluck the whiskers of a lion."
"Moroccan","Let us sit bent, but talk straight."
"Moroccan","Like a gold ring in a pigs snout is a woman without descretion."
"Moroccan","Little and lasting is better than much and passing."
"Moroccan","Little by little, the camel goes into the couscous."
"Moroccan","Love truth even if it harms you, and hate lies even if they serve you."
"Moroccan","The camel driver has his plans and the camel has his."
"Moroccan","Manage with bread and salted butter until God brings something to eat with it."
"Moroccan","Teaching in youth is like carving in stone."
"Moroccan","It's the eye that eats."
"Moroccan","What is here is elsewhere, what is not here is no where."
"Moroccan","The weight of the burden is known only by he who caries it."
"Moroccan","The wind of heaven is that which blows between the horses ears."
"Moroccan","The world has not promised anything to anybody."
"Moroccan","The world of humans is divided by lines, but the mind knows no limits, the heart no barriers."
"Moroccan","There is no beauty but the beauty of action."
"Moroccan","There is no queue at the gate of Patience."
"Moroccan","Though each path is different, there is only one way."
"Moroccan","Three things cause sorrow to flee; water, green trees, and a beautiful face."
"Moroccan","The barking of dogs does not hurt the clouds."
"Moroccan","To the dog who has money, men say: my lord dog."
"Moroccan","The tar of my country is better than the honey of others."
"Moroccan","What is past is gone, what is hoped for is absent, for you is the hour in which you are."
"Moroccan","What use to cover a mend in the Mona Lisa with a crayon."
"Moroccan","When a dog cannot bite, it has a bone in its mouth."
"Moroccan","When my child and I have eaten -- then clear the table."
"Moroccan","Whoever does not respect you, insults you."
"Moroccan","With much knowledge there is much sorrow, with much wisdom there is much weeping."
"Moroccan","Without fingers, the hand would be a spoon."
"Moroccan","Work and you will be strong; sit and you will stink."
"Moroccan","You can't catch two frogs with one hand."
"Moroccan","Time wounds all heels."
"Moroccan","The heart of a fool is in his mouth, the mouth of a wise man is in his heart."
"Moroccan","In an instant illumination can be achieved, it is as easy as turning on a light, the problem is finding the switch in the dark."
"Moroccan","The best fighting is often against yourself."
"Moroccan","The palm of ones hand does not eclipse the sun."
"Moroccan","The camel never sees his own hump, but that of his brother is always in his eyes."
"Moroccan","The dawn does not come twice to awaken a man."
"Moroccan","The dreaming man makes excuses for his inaction and places a fools cap on his head."
"Moroccan","The driver of an ass must by necessity know its wind."
"Moroccan","The enemy of my enemy is my friend."
"Moroccan","The falcon does not struggle when he is caught."
"Moroccan","The village gate can be closed, the mouth of the fool, never."
"Moroccan","The hand you cannot bite, kiss."
"Moroccan","The tongue has no bone yet it crushes."
"Moroccan","The hen lays an egg, and the cock feels the pain in his backside."
"Moroccan","The jewel is in the lotus."
"Moroccan","The mind is free and the slightest thought has great influence. It is therefore important that you think enlightened thoughts."
"Moroccan","The moon and the stars are not above us, the earth is on the other side of our feet."
"Moroccan","The pumpkin gives birth and the fence has the trouble."
"Moroccan","The same destiny awaits both the wise man and the fool."
"Moroccan","The sight of books removes sorrow from the heart."
"Moroccan","The sun cannot be covered by a net."
"Moroccan","That which you put into your soup kettle, comes latter onto your spoon."
"Moroccan","The first thing one should own is a home; and it is the last thing one should sell; for a home is ones tomb this side of heaven."
"Moroccan","By bread and salt we are united."
"Moroccan","Don't cross the bridge till you come to it."
"Moroccan","An honest answer is like a kiss on the lips."
"Moroccan","An old cat will never learn to dance."
"Moroccan","An old cat will not learn how to dance."
"Moroccan","Angels bend down their wings to a seeker of knowledge."
"Moroccan","As the sands of the desert are to the weary traveler, so are words to he who loveth silence."
"Moroccan","Better a handful of dried figs and content with that, than to own the gate of peacocks and be kicked in the eye by a broody camel."
"Moroccan","Better a patient man than a warrior, one who controls his temper than one who takes a city."
"Moroccan","Better the gurgling of a camel than the prayers of a fish."
"Moroccan","Among walnuts only the empty one speaks."
"Moroccan","By all means trust in Allah, but tie your camel first."
"Moroccan","Allah gives dried beans to eat to him who has no teeth left."
"Moroccan","Catch the halter rope and it will lead you to the donkey."
"Moroccan","Cold teaches a man how to steal charcoal."
"Moroccan","Compete, don't envy."
"Moroccan","Courage is illusion, balance is the best we can get."
"Moroccan","Discipline awaits he who leaves his path."
"Moroccan","Do not correct with a strike that which can be taught with a kiss."
"Moroccan","Do not judge a man by the whiteness of his turbin, soap is bought on credit."
"Moroccan","Do not respond to a barking dog."
"Moroccan","Do not shoot a glass arrow into a painted deer."
"Moroccan","By all means make friends with the dog, but do not lay aside the stick."
"Moroccan","A known mistake is better than an unknown truth."
"Moroccan","The quarrel of lovers is the renewal of love."
"Moroccan","If you're going to tell the truth, you better have one foot in the stirrup."
"Moroccan","A book is like a garden in the pocket."
"Moroccan","A crucible for silver and a furnace for gold, but Allah tests the heart."
"Moroccan","A devil takes one and makes two, a saint takes two and makes one."
"Moroccan","A dog on the run is safely kicked."
"Moroccan","A fly will not get into a closed mouth."
"Moroccan","A fool's lips bring him strife and invite a beating."
"Moroccan","A garden without a fence is like a dog without a tail."
"Moroccan","An agreement is a kind of debt."
"Moroccan","A handful of couscous is better than Mecca and all its dust."
"Moroccan","Believe what you see and lay aside what you hear."
"Moroccan","A little nod is enough for the wise man; an ass needs a fist."
"Moroccan","A narrow space looks wide to the narrow minded."
"Moroccan","A pipe of kif in the morning gives one more strength than a 100 camels in the courtyard."
"Moroccan","A stone from the hand of a friend is an apple."
"Moroccan","A teacher will appear when the student is ready."
"Moroccan","A wise man without a book is like a workman with no tools."
"Moroccan","A wise woman has much to say and yet remains silent."
"Moroccan","Abundance of money is a trial for a man."
"Moroccan","All tests are self-adminstered."
"Moroccan","A good name is more valuable than a velvet garment."
"Moroccan","If one tells you the harira is cold, tell him to put his hand in it."
"Moroccan","He who is a mocker dances without a tamborine."
"Moroccan","He who lacks knowledge derides his neighbor, but the man of understanding holds his tongue."
"Moroccan","He who mocks the poor shows contempt for their maker."
"Moroccan","He who touches honey is compelled to lick his fingers."
"Moroccan","If a man leaves little children behind him, it is as if he did not die."
"Moroccan","If a man once fall, all will tread on him."
"Moroccan","If a man puts a cord around his neck, God will provide someone to pull it."
"Moroccan","If a man told you that a dog had run off with your ear, would you go after the dog or search first for your ear?"
"Moroccan","If a rich man steals it is a mistake; if a poor man makes a mistake he has stolen."
"Moroccan","He who has patience with his enemy, rewards himself."
"Moroccan","If I listen, I have the advantage; if I speak, others have it."
"Moroccan","If you are a peg, endure the knocking; if you are a mallet, strike."
"Moroccan","If the judge is against you, you should withdraw the complaint."
"Moroccan","If the prayers of dogs were answered, bones would rain from the sky."
"Moroccan","If there were no cold Friday evenings and boring Saturdays, no one would get married any more."
"Moroccan","Either do as your neighbors do, or move away."
"Moroccan","If you are afraid of something, you give it power over you."
"Moroccan","If you find the residents of a place worshipping a donkey, bring the beast some grass."
"Moroccan","If you forget your worries, the storm will blow over."
"Moroccan","If you know his father and grandfather you may trust his son."
"Moroccan","If you see a man riding a wooden stick, say to him ""Good health to your horse""."
"Moroccan","If you see him riding on a bamboo-cane, say to him, ""Good health to your horse!"""
"Moroccan","If at noon the King declares it is night, behold the stars."
"Moroccan","Few desires, happy life."
"Moroccan","He who has nothing to die for has nothing to live for."
"Moroccan","Even the loftiest of mountains begins on the ground."
"Moroccan","Evening promises are like butter: morning comes, and it's all melted."
"Moroccan","Every beetle is a gazelle in the eyes of its mother."
"Moroccan","Every dog thinks of his own fleas as gazelles."
"Moroccan","If you don't understand it with a wink, you certainly will with a blow."
"Moroccan","Exert effort, you shall be rewarded."
"Moroccan","For he who builds his casbah out of halava; beware the nibblers."
"Moroccan","For the sake of a single rose, the gardener becomes servant to a thousand thorns."
"Moroccan","Friendship is honey - but don't eat it all."
"Moroccan","Endurance pierces marble."
"Moroccan","He who gives fair words feeds you with an empty spoon."
"Moroccan","Every rose has a thorn as its friend."
"Moroccan","He who flatters with laughter wants to see you cry."
"Moroccan","Friendship is honey -- but don't eat it all."
"Moroccan","He who enters Fez with a rug, leaves with a money bag."
"Moroccan","Even as a solid rock is unshaken by the wind, so are the wise unshaken by praise or blame."
"Moroccan","He who eats when he is full digs his grave with his teeth."
"Moroccan","He is a good storyteller who can turn a man's ears into eyes."
"Moroccan","Friendship is honey, but don't eat it all."
"Moroccan","He who follows the crow will be led the the corpses of dogs."
"Moroccan","Among walnuts only the empty one speaks."
"Moroccan","Instruction in youth is like engraving in stone."
"Moroccan","A stone from the hand of a friend is an apple."
"Moroccan","Abundance of money is a trial for a man."
"Moroccan","An agreement is a kind of debt."
"Moroccan","Either do as your neighbors do, or move away."
"Moroccan","If a man leaves little children behind him, it is as if he did not die."
"Moroccan","An old cat will not learn how to dance."
"Moroccan","If you are a peg, endure the knocking; if you are a mallet, strike."
"Moroccan","The falcon does not struggle when he is caught."
"Moroccan","The pumpkin gives birth and the fence has the trouble."
"Moroccan","The quarrel of lovers is the renewal of love."
"Moroccan","The tar of my country is better than the honey of others."
"Moroccan","Work and you will be strong; sit and you will stink."
"Moroccan","If a man once fall, all will tread on him."
"Morocco","One bean does not make a whole meal."
"Mossi","The strength of the elderly is in the ears and on the lips."
"Moussi","Little by little the bird builds its nest."
"Mozambican","You cannot dance well on only one leg."
"Mozambican","Never marry a woman who has bigger feet than you."
"Mozambican","Witch doctors do not sell their potions to each other."
"Mozambican","Slander by the stream will be heard by the frogs."
"Mozambican","Once a man has been bitten by a lion, he buys a dog."
"Mozambican","If you do not travel, you will marry your own sister."
"Mozambican","He who led me in the night, will be thanked by me at daybreak."
"Mozambican","A snake that you can see does not bite."
"Mozambican","On a dead tree there are no monkeys."
"Mozambican","No tattoo is made without blood."
"Muslim","A kind word is like charity."
"Muslim","Trust in Allah, but tie your camel."
"Myanmar","Regrets always come later."
"Myanmar","There's only 2 ways: go crazy, or go extraordinary!."
"Myanmar","The least boy always carries the biggest fiddle."
"Myanmar","The least and weakest man can do some hurt."
"Myanmar","The learned are apt to be taciturn."
"Myanmar","Two may become enemies, when their ideas are the same."
"Myanmar","Seek wisdom like a beggar."
"Myanmar","Old cows like young grass."
"Myanmar","One can't die if he's brave. Even when he die his name lasts forever."
"Myanmar","Snake to snake, see the leg."
"Myanmar","Unmistakable lawyer. Immortal medicine man."
"Myanmar","Using up the arrows, before getting into battle."
"Myanmar","Wise man's anger never comes out."
"Myanmar","You can be a king, if you are brave."
"Myanmar","An unmarried woman is not honored, even if she has 10 brothers."
"Myanmar","You can even be a God, if you try."
"Myanmar","You can pull back your leg, but not your committed word."
"Myanmar","You can stop speaking to someone, but you cannot stop being related."
"Myanmar","You cannot be lucky forever."
"Myanmar","You fail if you're afraid. Or brave, you may become a king."
"Myanmar","Wisdom is in the books."
"Myanmar","Anyone can fancy his bed as a palace."
"Myanmar","Mango among fruits, pork among meats, tea among leaves."
"Myanmar","Be deligent when there's time."
"Myanmar","1 day 1 yard. Bagan won't move."
"Myanmar","A child without a mother is like a fish in shallow water."
"Myanmar","A ship-load of fish gets spoiled, because of 1 spoiled fish."
"Myanmar","Before the bending arm straighten, or before the straighten arm bends."
"Myanmar","Bone in chicken, relatives in man."
"Myanmar","Calling out for mother, only when you stumble."
"Myanmar","Collect the water while it rains."
"Myanmar","Harrow before the cow."
"Myanmar","It's like catching 2 eels at a time."
"Myanmar","A genuine ruby wont sink and disappear in mud."
"Myanmar","Do use a needle in time, or you might need an axe later."
"Myanmar","If there are too many teachers or leaders with different ideas, the follower will not do anything and learn nothing."
"Myanmar","It's dress in a man, bindings in baskets' edge."
"Myanmar","Forgetting the cow, when going out to plough."
"Myanmar","Fisherman near fisherman. Hunter near hunter."
"Myanmar","Fidelity in a king, promise in men."
"Myanmar","Earth is the queen of beds."
"Myanmar","Don't be a sling bag."
"Myanmar","The least boy always carries the biggest fiddle."
"Myanmar","The learned are apt to be taciturn."
"Myanmar","The least and weakest man can do some hurt."
"Myanmaran","The strings of the harp must be not too tight, and not too slack."
"Myanmaran","The least boy always carries the biggest fiddle."
"Myanmaran","The monkey never complains that he has no comb."
"Myanmaran","The life of a guest is seven days."
"Myanmaran","The more you know, the luckier you get."
"Myanmaran","The least and weakest man can do some hurt."
"Myanmaran","The learned are apt to be taciturn."
"Myanmaran","The hero appears only when the tiger is dead."
"Myanmaran","The anger of the prudent never shows."
"Myanmaran","The strongest ox is only as strong as the old ox with a broken leg."
"Myanmaran","Worthless people blame their karma."
"Myanmaran","The dead know the price of wood."
"Myanmaran","The talkers aren't strong; the strong don't talk."
"Myanmaran","The tree is felled..."
"Myanmaran","There is no cure for an unknown illness."
"Myanmaran","They call their aunt only when her cucumbers are ripe."
"Myanmaran","Too many doctors caused the boy's death."
"Myanmaran","What is now top of the mast, will be firewood soon."
"Myanmaran","When the cat gets too old, the mice are not afraid any more."
"Myanmaran","When the healthy dog fights with a mad dog, it is the ears of the healthy one that are bitten off."
"Myanmaran","With fowls, the pedigree; with men, breeding."
"Myanmaran","Sugarcane is always sweet people only sometimes so."
"Myanmaran","You can only be honest if you are well fed."
"Myanmaran","You can't get rice by pounding bran."
"Myanmaran","Where there is love, there is peace."
"Myanmaran","A good tree can lodge ten thousand birds."
"Myanmaran","The blind person is not afraid of ghosts."
"Myanmaran","A child without a mother is like a fish in shallow water."
"Myanmaran","Spread the word of a Psalm and it becomes a popular song."
"Myanmaran","A man with little learning is like the frog who thinks its pond is an ocean."
"Myanmaran","An inflated idea can burst the bubble of your happiness."
"Myanmaran","Bad children? Guilty parents."
"Myanmaran","Day will not break thanks to the cackling of the chicken."
"Myanmaran","Do not bathe if there is no water."
"Myanmaran","Doctors must be old and lawyers must be young."
"Myanmaran","Dust does not rise because a dog-flea hops."
"Myanmaran","He who carries the word ""no"" with him will never be poor even when he is old."
"Myanmaran","He who carries too much tenderness will become a slave."
"Myanmaran","He who comes from hell is not afraid of hot ashes."
"Myanmaran","Only the sufferers know how their bellies ache."
"Myanmaran","Ices plant a new, one."
"Myanmaran","Only when a new government comes to power do you learn to appreciate the values of the old one."
"Myanmaran","Only tall things cast shadows."
"Myanmaran","Once the cattle have been split up, then the tiger strikes."
"Myanmaran","Old oxen like soft grass."
"Myanmaran","Often a branch is broken off the tree by the one who has rested in its shadow."
"Myanmaran","If a centipede loses a leg, it can still walk."
"Myanmaran","It is never later than midnight."
"Myanmaran","It is as difficult to win love as it is to pack salt in pine needles."
"Myanmaran","If you take big paces you leave big spaces."
"Myanmaran","If you don't have a brain, join the army; if you don't have rice, use beans instead."
"Myanmaran","Karma is the mother and karma is the father."
"Namibian","The ears do not lose their interest."
"Namibian","The bone given to you by the king is meat."
"Namibian","That which leaks cannot stay full."
"Namibian","Only the strong survive."
"Namibian","Only the mountains never meet."
"Namibian","Never kill the cat that cries."
"Namibian","Learning expands great souls."
"Namibian","Love is a despot who spares no one."
"Namibian","Let the first urge pass, wait for the second."
"Namibian","The earth is not ours, it is a treasure we hold in trust for future generations."
"Namibian","When the fish gets rotten, it all starts from the head."
"Namibian","Moral people sleep well at night, but the immoral seem to get pleasure from the waking hours much more."
"Namibian","The trees never meet but people do."
"Namibian","The ways of the immoral are always predictable."
"Namibian","There are many a good tune played on an old fiddle."
"Namibian","Those who live together cannot hide their behinds from each other."
"Namibian","To the white horse the zebra said: 'i am white too,' and to the black horse: 'i am really black.'"
"Namibian","He who has bad breath cannot smell it."
"Namibian","When a tiny toe is hurting the whole body stoops down to attend to it."
"Namibian","When the fox is hungry, he eats butterflies."
"Namibian","Where there are birds, there is water."
"Namibian","Where you see the tail, there is the mouse."
"Namibian","It's easy to wad your neighbor's field."
"Namibian","Today butterflies, tomorrow wasps."
"Namibian","A man cannot undo his past. can zebras wipe away their stripes?"
"Namibian","It is the one who lies by a fire who feels the heat."
"Namibian","A diamonds father is coal, yet it regards itself as upper-class."
"Namibian","A glutton is never satisfied."
"Namibian","A mother is always a mother."
"Namibian","A parasite cannot live alone."
"Namibian","An heir also inherits quarrels."
"Namibian","An old monkey never forgets how to climb trees."
"Namibian","As soon as the monkey has climbed a tree, it will start abusing from its elevated position."
"Namibian","Elephants carry each other."
"Namibian","Envy and greed grow on the same stalk."
"Namibian","Even a weak lion is not bitten by a dog."
"Namibian","If your mouth turns into a knife, it will cut off your lips."
"Namibian","God is in the details and so is the devil."
"Namibian","God speaks a foreign tongue."
"Namibian","Gold like the sun melts wax and hardens clay."
"Namibian","Half bread is better than nothing."
"Namibian","If the State is going to fall, it is from the belly."
"Namibian","I am not dead yet. i can suffer a bit more."
"Namibian","A braggart is recognized by his headgear."
"Namibian","A fool laughs at himself."
"Namibian","If you want to give God a good laugh, tell him of your future plans."
"Namibian","From little date seeds, great things are born."
"Namibian","It is always a pleasure to greet a friend from afar."
"Namibian","Only the strong survive."
"Namibian","Only the mountains never meet."
"NASA","Do one thing at time, with supreme excellence."
"Native American","If you see no reason for giving thanks, the fault lies in yourself."
"Native American","Every animal knows more than you do."
"Native American","Man has responsiblity, not power."
"Native American","Listen or your tongue will keep you deaf."
"Native American","Life is not separate from death. It only looks that way."
"Native American","What the people believe is true."
"Native American","After dark all cats are leopards."
"Native American","Do not wrong or hate your neighbor for it is not he that you wrong but yourself."
"Native American","Tell me and I'll forget. Show me, and I may not remember. Involve me, and I'll understand."
"Native American","Life is not separate from death. It only looks that way."
"Native American","No matter how hidden a force is, it will attract some kind of resistance."
"Native American","It is observed that in any great endeavor, it is not enough for a person to depend solely on himself."
"Native American","It is no longer good enough to cry peace. We must act peace, live peace and live in peace."
"Native American","It only looks that way."
"Native American","Judge not by the eye but by the heart."
"Native American","Knowledge is rooted in all things -- the world is a library."
"Native American","Life is -- not separate from death."
"Native American","It is not enough for a man to know how to ride, he must also know how to fall."
"Native American","Listen or thy tongue will keep thee deaf."
"Native American","Listen or your tongue will keep you deaf."
"Native American","Listening to a liar is like drinking warm water."
"Native American","Live and learn, die and forget it all."
"Native American","Lovely women, lovely quarrels."
"Native American","Never criticize a man until you've walked a mile in his moccasins."
"Native American","It is easy to be brave from a distance."
"Native American","As you go the way of life you will see a great chasm. Jump. It is not as wide as you think."
"Native American","May your life be like a wildflower, growing freely in the beauty and joy of each day."
"Native American","Don't judge any man until you have walked two moons in his moccasins."
"Native American","A man's life is a circle from childhood to childhood, and thus it is in everything where the power moves."
"Native American","A pearl is worthless as long as it is in its shell."
"Native American","After dark all cats are leopards."
"Native American","All dreams spin out from the same web."
"Native American","The lazy ox drinks dirty water."
"Native American","Creation is continuous."
"Native American","No matter how hidden a force is, it will attract some kind of resistance."
"Native American","Do not change horses in the middle of the river."
"Native American","Don't judge a man until you have walked two moons in his moccasins."
"Native American","If you continue to contaminate your own home, you will eventually suffocate in your own waste."
"Native American","Don't let yesterday use up too much of today."
"Native American","Even a small mouse has anger."
"Native American","Everything the Power does, it does in a circle."
"Native American","Haste is the mother of inaccuracy."
"Native American","I am standing at the Earth's center."
"Native American","If a man is to do something more than human, he must have more than human powers."
"Native American","If it does not kill you, it will bring you happiness."
"Native American","Do not wrong or hate your neighbor for it is not he that you wrong but yourself."
"Native American","What the people believe is true."
"Native American","There is nothing so eloquent as the rattlesnake's tail."
"Native American","They are not dead who live in the hearts they leave behind."
"Native American","Those who have one foot in the canoe, and one foot in the boat are going to fall into the river."
"Native American","Touching the earth equates to having harmony with nature."
"Native American","True peace between nations will only happen when there is true peace within people's souls."
"Native American","We do no inherit the earth from our ancestors, we borrow it from our children."
"Native American","The devil goes away and heaven comes to stay."
"Native American","We will be known forever by the tracks we leave."
"Native American","The soul would have no rainbow if the eyes had no tears."
"Native American","When a man moves from nature, his heart becomes hard."
"Native American","When the earth is hot, the worm stays in the ground."
"Native American","When the Indian wins, it is a massacre."
"Native American","When the last tree has been cut down, the last river has been polluted and the last fish has been caught -- only then do you realize that money can't buy everything."
"Native American","When the white man wins, it is a battle."
"Native American","When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced. Live you life in a manner so that when you die the world cries and you rejoice."
"Native American","Worms don't like the robin's song."
"Native American","We do not inherit the land from our ancestors, we borrow it form our children."
"Native American","The center of the universe is everywhere."
"Native American","No river can return to its source, yet all rivers must have a beginning."
"Native American","Nobody gets out of the bed to sleep on the floor."
"Native American","Not every sweet root gives birth to sweet grass."
"Native American","One foe is too many and a hundred friends are too few."
"Native American","One shower doesn't make a flood."
"Native American","Regard Heaven as your father, Earth as your Mother and all things as your Brothers and Sisters."
"Native American","Remember that your children are not your own, but are lent to you by the Creator."
"Native American","There is no death, only a change of worlds."
"Native American","Tell me and I'll forget. Show me, and I may not remember. Involve me, and I'll understand."
"Native American","The words of God are not like the oak leaf which dies and falls to the earth, but like the pine tree which stays green forever."
"Native American","A brave man dies but once, a coward many times."
"Native American","The frog does not drink up the pond in which he lives."
"Native American","Every animal knows more than you do."
"Native American","The ones that matter the most are the children."
"Native American","The power of the world always works in circles."
"Native American","The river is my brother for it carries my canoe."
"Native American","No one else can represent your conscience."
"Native American","Take only what you need and leave the land as you found it."
"Native American","Great Spirit, grant that I may not criticize my neighbor until I have walked a mile in his moccasins."
"Native American","Listen or your tongue will keep you deaf."
"Native American","Tell me and I'll forget. Show me, and I may not remember. Involve me, and I'll understand."
"Native American Anishinabe","It is less of a problem to be poor, than to be dishonest."
"Native American Anishinabe","No one else can represent your conscience."
"Native American Anishinabe","What the people believe is true."
"Native American Anishinabe","What the people believe is true."
"Native American Apache","It is better to have less thunder in the mouth and more lightning in the hand."
"Native American Arapaho","All plants are our brothers and sisters. They talk to us and if we listen, we can hear them."
"Native American Arapaho","Before eating, always take time to thank the food."
"Native American Arapaho","Each bird loves to hear himself sing."
"Native American Arapaho","If we wonder often, the gift of knowledge will come."
"Native American Arapaho","Take only what you need and leave the land as you found it."
"Native American Arapaho","When we show our respect for other living things, they respond with respect for us."
"Native American Assiniboine","Most of us do not look as handsome to others as we do to ourselves."
"Native American Assiniboine","Deeds speak louder than words."
"Native American Blackfoot","Life is not separate from death. It only looks that way."
"Native American Blackfoot","What is life? It is the flash of a firefly in the night. It is the breath of a buffalo in the wintertime. It is the little shadow which runs across the grass and loses itself in the sunset..."
"Native American Blackfoot","Those that lie down with dogs, get up with fleas."
"Native American Blackfoot","Life is not separate from death. It only looks that way."
"Native American Cherokee","When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced. Live your life so that when you die, the world cries and you rejoice."
"Native American Cherokee","The weakness of the enemy makes our strength."
"Native American Cherokee","May the Great Spirit's blessings always be with you."
"Native American Cherokee","Don't let yesterday use up too much of today."
"Native American Cherokee","All my relations in creation."
"Native American Cheyenne","Do not judge your neighbor until you walk two moons in his moccasins."
"Native American Cheyenne","A danger foreseen is half-avoided."
"Native American Cheyenne","Beware of the man who does not talk, and the dog that does not bark."
"Native American Cheyenne","If a man is as wise as a serpent, he can afford to be as harmless as a dove."
"Native American Cheyenne","Our first teacher is our own heart."
"Native American Cheyenne","A good soldier is a poor scout."
"Native American Comanche","All who have died are equal."
"Native American Cree","Never sit while your seniors stand."
"Native American Cree","Knowledge that is not used is abused."
"Native American Cree","Listen or your tongue will keep you deaf."
"Native American Cree","Only two relationships are possible - to be a friend or to be an enemy."
"Native American Cree","Only when the last tree has withered, and the last fish caught, and the last river been poisoned, will we realize we cannot eat money."
"Native American Creole","One rain does not make a crop."
"Native American Crow","You already possess everything necessary to become great."
"Native American Crow","The more you give, the more good things come to you."
"Native American Crow","One has to face fear or forever run from it."
"Native American Crow","Old age is not as honorable as death, but most people want it."
"Native American Crow","Man's law changes with his understanding of man. Only the laws of the spirit remain always the same."
"Native American Dakota","We will be known forever by the tracks we leave."
"Native American Duwamish","Day and night cannot dwell together."
"Native American Duwamish","There is no death, only a change of worlds."
"Native American Fox","There are many good moccasin tracks along the trail of a straight arrow."
"Native American Fox","When you have learned about love, you have learned about god."
"Native American Grebo","Take the drowning child from the water before scolding it."
"Native American Hopi","All dreams spin out from the same web."
"Native American Hopi","Wisdom comes only when you stop looking for it and start living the life the Creator intended for you."
"Native American Hopi","The rainbow is a sign from Him who is in all things."
"Native American Hopi","The rain falls on the just and the unjust."
"Native American Hopi","The one who tells the stories rules the world."
"Native American Hopi","One finger cannot lift a pebble."
"Native American Hopi","In death, I am born."
"Native American Hopi","In age, talk; in childhood, tears."
"Native American Hopi","Do not allow anger to poison you."
"Native American Hopi","You must live your life from beginning to end: Noone else can do it for you."
"Native American Hopi","Don't be afraid to cry. It will free your mind of sorrowful thoughts."
"Native American Huron","Listen to the voice of nature, For it holds treasures for you."
"Native American Iowa","A brave man dies but once, a coward many times."
"Native American Iroquois","The greatest strength is gentleness."
"Native American Kiowa","Walk lightly in the spring; Mother Earth is pregnant."
"Native American Lakota","When a man moves from nature, his heart becomes hard."
"Native American Lakota","When a man moves away from nature his heart becomes hard."
"Native American Lakota","No matter how hidden a force is, it will attract some kind of resistance."
"Native American Lakota","We are all related."
"Native American Lakota","Touching the earth equates to having harmony with nature."
"Native American Lakota","The power of the world always works in circles."
"Native American Lakota","The ones that matter the most are the children."
"Native American Lakota","The center of the universe is everywhere."
"Native American Lakota","True peace between nations will only happen when there is true peace within people's souls."
"Native American Lakota","See how the boy is with his sister and the other ones of his home lodge and you can know how the man will be with your daughter."
"Native American Lakota","Knowledge is rooted in all things--the world is a library."
"Native American Lakota","There can never be peace between nations until it is first known that true peace is within the souls of men."
"Native American Lakota","Many have fallen with the bottle in their hand."
"Native American Lakota","It is observed that in any great endeavor, it is not enough for a person to depend solely on himself."
"Native American Lakota","Inner peace and love are the greatest of God's gifts."
"Native American Lakota","If you continue to contaminate your own home, you will eventually suffocate in your own waste."
"Native American Lakota","I am standing at the Earth's center."
"Native American Lakota","Force, no matter how concealed, begets resistance."
"Native American Lakota","Do not speak of evil for it creates curiosity in the hearts of the young."
"Native American Lakota","Creation is continuous."
"Native American Lakota","Be satisfied with the needs instead of the wants."
"Native American Lakota","A nation is not conquered until the hearts of its women are on the ground. Then it is finished, no matter how brave its warriors or how strong their weapons."
"Native American Lakota","A man or a woman with many children has many homes."
"Native American Lakota","A man's life is a circle from childhood to childhood, and thus it is in everything where the power moves."
"Native American Lakota","Everything the power does, it does in a circle."
"Native American Lakota","May the Great Spirit walk with you."
"Native American Lakota Sioux","A man or woman with many children has many homes."
"Native American Lumbee","Seek wisdom, not knowledge. Knowledge is of the past, Wisdom is of the future."
"Native American Maricopa","If you see no reason for giving thanks, the fault lies in yourself."
"Native American Maricopa","Everyone who is successful must have dreamed of something."
"Native American Minquass","The soul would have no rainbow if the eyes had no tears."
"Native American Minquass","If you see no reason for giving thanks, the fault lies in yourself."
"Native American Minquass","If you see no reason for giving thanks, the fault lies in yourself."
"Native American Mohawk","A good chief gives, he does not take."
"Native American Mohawk","Remember that your children are not your own, but are lent to you by the Creator."
"Native American Navajo","A rocky vineyard does not need a prayer, but a pick ax."
"Native American Navajo","Coyote is always out there waiting, and Coyote is always hungry."
"Native American Navajo","I have been to the end of the earth. I have been to the end of the water. I have been to the end of the sky. I have been to the end of the mountains. I have found none that are not my friends."
"Native American Navajo","It's impossible to awaken a man who is pretending to be asleep."
"Native American Navajo","You can't win them all."
"Native American Navajo","There is nothing as eloquent as a rattlesnake's tail."
"Native American Navajo","You cannot see the future with tears in your eyes."
"Native American Navajo","You can't wake a person who is pretending to be asleep."
"Native American Navajo","You can't win them all."
"Native American Navajo","You can't wake a person who is pretending to be asleep."
"Native American Nez Perce","White men have too many chiefs."
"Native American Nez Perce","Every animal knows more than you do."
"Native American Nez Perce","Every animal knows more than you do."
"Native American Oglala Sioux","To touch the earth is to have harmony with nature."
"Native American Oglala Sioux","There can never be peace between nations until it is first known that true peace is within the souls of men."
"Native American Oklahoma","The coward shoots with shut eyes."
"Native American Oklahoma","A starving man will eat with the wolf."
"Native American Oklahoma","When a fox walks lame, the old rabbit jumps."
"Native American Omaha","It is easy to be brave from a distance."
"Native American Omaha","The bird that has eaten cannot fly with the bird that is hungry."
"Native American Omaha","Ask questions from your heart and you will be answered from the heart."
"Native American Omaha","Ask questions from you heart and you will be answered from the heart."
"Native American Omaha","The bird who has eaten cannot fly with the bird that is hungry."
"Native American Osage","Strive to be a person who is never absent from an important act."
"Native American Osage","We are friends; we must assist each other to bear our burdens."
"Native American Paiute","A hungry stomach makes a short prayer."
"Native American Pawnee","What is past and cannot be prevented should not be grieved for."
"Native American Pima","Do not wrong or hate your neighbor for it is not he that you wrong but yourself."
"Native American Pima","Do right and fear no man."
"Native American Pima","Do unto others as you would they should do unto you."
"Native American Pima","Each person is his own judge."
"Native American Pima","Do unto others as you would they should do unto you."
"Native American Pima","Do unto others as you would be done unto."
"Native American Pima","Do right and fear no man."
"Native American Pima","Do not wrong or hate your neighbor for it is not he that you wrong but yourself."
"Native American Plains","Make my enemy brave and strong, so that if defeated, I will not be ashamed."
"Native American Pueblo","A good man does not take what belongs to someone else."
"Native American Pueblo","Cherish youth, but trust old age."
"Native American Sauk","There is a need for obedience all around us."
"Native American Sauk","Sharing and giving are the ways of God."
"Native American Seneca","He who would do great things should not attempt them all alone."
"Native American Seneca","Love one another and do not strive for another's undoing."
"Native American Shawnee","Each person is his own judge."
"Native American Shawnee","Sing your death song and die like a hero going home."
"Native American Shawnee","We are all one child spinning through Mother Sky."
"Native American Shenandoah","It is no longer good enought to Cry peace, We must Act peace, Live peace and Live In Peace."
"Native American Shenandoah","We are made from Mother Earth and we go back to Mother Earth."
"Native American Sioux","Do not only point out the way, but lead the way."
"Native American Sioux","With all things and in all things, we are relatives."
"Native American Sioux","There are many good moccasin tracks along the trail of a straight arrow."
"Native American Sioux","The frog does not drink up the pond in which he lives."
"Native American Sioux","Speak truth in humility to all people. Only then can you be a true man."
"Native American Sioux","Love yourself; get outside yourself and take action. Focus on the solution; be at peace."
"Native American Sioux","A people without a history is like the wind over buffalo grass."
"Native American Sioux","Poverty is a noose that strangles humility and breeds disrespect for God and man."
"Native American Sioux","A people without history is like wind on the buffalo grass."
"Native American Southwest","The moon is not shamed by the barking of dogs."
"Native American Teeton Sioux","Be satisfied with the needs insead of the wants."
"Native American Tenton Sioux","Inner peace and love are the greatest of God's gifts."
"Native American Teton Sioux","Inner peace and love are the greatest of god's gifts."
"Native American Tuscarora","Man has responsibility, not power."
"Native American Tuscarora","Those who have one foot in the canoe, and one foot in the boat, are going to fall into the river."
"Native American Tuscarora","Man has responsiblity, not power."
"Native American Tuscarora","They are not dead who live in the hearts they leave behind."
"Native American Tuscarora","Man has responsibility, not power."
"Native American Umpqua","The way of the troublemaker is thorny."
"Native American Ute","Don't walk behind me; I may not lead. Don't walk in front of me; I may not follow. Walk beside me that we may be as one."
"Native American Ute","God gave us each a song."
"Native American Ute","God gives us each a song."
"Native American Winnebago","A man must make his own arrows."
"Native American Yurok","Silence has so much meaning."
"Native American Yurok","When you die, you will be spoken of as those in the sky, like the stars."
"Native American Zuni","After dark all cats are leopards."
"Native American Zuni","After dark all cats are leopards."
"Navaho","A man can't get rich if he takes proper care of his family."
"Navajo","You can't wake a person who is pretending to be asleep."
"Navajo","I have been to the end of the earth, I have been to the end of the waters, I have been to the end of the sky, I have been to the end of the mountains, I have found none that are not my friends."
"Navajo","I grew up knowing it's wrong to have more than you need. It means you're not taking care of your people."
"Navajo","You can't wake a person who is pretending to be asleep."
"Navajo","We do not inherit the land from our ancestors, we borrow it fromour children."
"Navajo","Thoughts are like arrows: once released, they strike their mark. Guard them well or one day you may be your own victim."
"Navajo","Those who tell the stories, rule the people."
"Navajo","There is nothing as eloquent as a rattlesnake's tail."
"Navajo","A man can't get rich if he takes proper care of his family."
"Navajo","Coyote is always out there waiting, and Coyote is always hungry."
"Navajo","Before me peaceful, behind me peaceful, under me peaceful, over me peaceful, all around me peaceful."
"Navajo","Be still and the earth will speak to you."
"Navajo","Always assume your guest is tired, cold and hungry, and act accordingly."
"Navajo","A rocky vinyard does not need a prayer, but a pick ax."
"Navajo","If you want to see what your body will look like tomorrow, look at your thoughts today."
"Ndebele","The tears of a man drop onto his chest."
"Ndebele","Grow old, body, the heart still remains."
"Ndongan","She who doesn't say it to you isn't your friend."
"Near East","A friend is one who warns you."
"Nepal","Wealth is both an enemy and a friend."
"Nepal","Wealth is both an enemy and a friend."
"Nepalese","The god who made the mouth will provide the food."
"Nepalese","Wealth is both an enemy and a friend."
"Nepalese","Vanity blossoms but bears no fruit."
"Nepalese","The farmer grows the corn, but the bear eats it."
"Nepalese","To take revenge on an enemy, give him an elephant -- first he must thank you for the gift, and then the elephant's appetite will deplete your enemy's resources."
"Nepalese","You have a lot of friends if you have money; otherwise there are only strangers."
"Nepalese","It is the mind that wins or loses."
"Nepalese","If you only depend on others, you will soon go hungry."
"Nepalese","Hold short services for minor gods."
"Nepalese","Even the devil slaves for the fortunate."
"Nepalese","Depend on others and you'll go hungry."
"Nepalese","A speaker needs no tools."
"Nepalese","Too much sugar is bitter."
"Nepalese","Opportunities come but do not linger."
"Netherlands Antillean","You cannot fly with wings made of butter."
"Netherlands Antillean","You eat an egg, but you don't understand how painful it was for the chicken."
"Netherlands Antillean","There are no virgins in a brothel."
"Netherlands Antillean","The rope will break where it is thinnest."
"Netherlands Antillean","The rainbow would be even more beautiful if the show was not for free."
"Netherlands Antillean","The more hair a dog has, the more fleas he will have."
"Netherlands Antillean","The dog says: ""Master, my life is far too good, hurt me in the tail."""
"Netherlands Antillean","Never throw the cat at the dog."
"Netherlands Antillean","In the hangman's house you will always find a rope."
"Netherlands Antillean","Don't give a child a name until after it is born."
"Netherlands Antillean","An old hen makes strong soup."
"Netherlands Antillean","A cat will teach her young ones all the tricks, except how to jump backwards."
"Netherlands Antillean","The monkey will never wash with the same water twice."
"New England","Broken eggs can never be mended."
"New England","Beware of too great a bargain."
"New England","There is only one thing harder than looking for a dewdrop in the dew, and that is fishing for a clam in the clam chowder."
"New England","If you want to know what a man is really like, take notice how he acts when he loses money."
"New England","Well done is better than well said."
"New England","The forest is the poor man's overcoat."
"New England","The forest is the poor man's overcoat."
"New Zealander","Who lives in a quiet house has plenty."
"New Zealander","Old canoes can be restored, but youth and beauty cannot."
"New Zealander","Never spend time with people who don't respect you."
"New Zealander","Only the foolish visit the land of the cannibals."
"New Zealander","Persist as resolutely as you persist in eating."
"New Zealander","The block of wood should not dictate to the carver."
"New Zealander","The land is a mother that never dies."
"New Zealander","Let us hurry and finish up the food; when visitors arrive, the meal will be over."
"New Zealander","The more you ask how much longer it will take, the longer the journey will seem."
"New Zealander","The prudent embark when the sea is calm -- the rash when it's stormy."
"New Zealander","Turn your face to the sun and the shadows fall behind you."
"New Zealander","When one chief falls, another rises."
"New Zealander","Be quick to follow up an advantage."
"New Zealander","Walk in the valley of our ancestors, learn of the history, and marvel at the beauty."
"New Zealander","A house full of people is a house full of different points of view."
"New Zealander","Let someone else sing your praise."
"New Zealander","A hand that is ready to hit may cause you great trouble."
"New Zealander","A house full of people is filled with different points of view."
"New Zealander","A little axe, when well used, brings lots of food."
"New Zealander","A warrior dies in battle; a mountain climber on the rocks, but a farmer dies of old age."
"New Zealander","Boast during the day; be humble at night."
"New Zealander","Don't spend time with people who don't respect you."
"New Zealander","Even food can attack."
"New Zealander","Hold on tight to the words of your ancestors."
"New Zealander","In this world I greet my oldest survivor -- the earth."
"New Zealander","In peace be faithful; in war be valiant."
"New Zealander","Can I pull down the sun with a forked stick, or prevent it from running its course?"
"New Zealander","Don't lean on your fellow men -- theirs is an ever moving support."
"Ngandi","The frog does not tire in the water."
"Ngbaka","The buffalo does not wander from the marsh where it was born."
"Ngombe","A leader does not rise for a squirrel."
"Nicaraguan","Pretend you're in great danger, and you'll find out if you have any friends."
"Nicaraguan","Envy follows merit like the shadow follows the body."
"Nicaraguan","There's nobody can prevent you getting into heaven, but there are many always ready to give you a shove into hell."
"Nicaraguan","There is taste in variety, and variety in taste."
"Nicaraguan","The lance never blunted the pen, nor the pen the lance."
"Nicaraguan","Taste in variety, variety in taste."
"Nicaraguan","Renounce a friend who covers you with his wings and destroys you with his beak."
"Nicaraguan","There's nothing worse for an intelligent person than to put a fool beside him."
"Nicaraguan","Many things are too bad to be blessed, and too good to be cursed."
"Nicaraguan","It takes two to start an altercation, but only one to end it."
"Nicaraguan","It takes two to make a quarrel but only one to end it."
"Nicaraguan","He who steals in order to give to god can only get advice from the devil."
"Nicaraguan","For the bad weather, a cheerful face."
"Nicaraguan","Eyes that see do not grow old."
"Nicaraguan","A favor given to man is appreciated by none."
"Nicaraguan","Fleeing and running are not the same thing."
"Niger","A proverb is the horse of conversation: when the conversation lags, a proverb revives it."
"Niger","A wise man who knows proverbs can reconcile difficulties."
"Niger","Before one cooks, one must have the meat."
"Niger","If you watch your pot, your food will not burn."
"Nigeria","The dying man is not saved by medicine."
"Nigeria","Some birds avoid the water, ducks seek it."
"Nigeria","Familiarity breeds contempt; distance breeds respect."
"Nigerian","A person is a guest for one or two days, but becomes an intruder on the third."
"Nigerian","A single man can not build a house."
"Nigerian","A rat is not born a rabbit."
"Nigerian","A pot that build attracts the cook."
"Nigerian","A pig that is used to wallowing in the mud looks for a clean person to rub against."
"Nigerian","A piece of iron can only become what the blacksmith says it should become."
"Nigerian","A person who picks something and decides to make it his own, ought to think how he would feel if he was the person who lost the property he picked."
"Nigerian","A person who has children does not die."
"Nigerian","All is never said."
"Nigerian","A person on whose head lice are being removed, must be grateful."
"Nigerian","A snake which escapes fills a basket."
"Nigerian","A person always breaking off from work never finishes anything."
"Nigerian","A performing masquerade who tries too hard to outclass his colleagues may expose his anus."
"Nigerian","A pad that breaks a pot of water does not remain on the head."
"Nigerian","A one-eyed person does not thank god until he meets a blind person at prayer."
"Nigerian","A mouse that removes the palm-nut that turns out to be the bait of a trap, would already have known that the palm-nut does not ripen on the ground."
"Nigerian","A mother is gold, a father is a mirror."
"Nigerian","A masquerade is not a spirit only because of its mask."
"Nigerian","A masquerade does not perform to an outside audience until he performs well at the home base."
"Nigerian","A person who does not bathe, must know it of himself that he is dirty."
"Nigerian","A tree is best measured when it's down."
"Nigerian","A man who is advised and he takes it, is still a man who acts from his own free will."
"Nigerian","A man who walks alone carries a load of palm-fronds."
"Nigerian","Accomplishment of purpose is better than making a profit."
"Nigerian","Abundance will make cotton pull a stone."
"Nigerian","A woman who is not successful in her own marriage has no advice to give to her younger generations."
"Nigerian","A woman who has not been twice married cannot know what a perfect marriage is."
"Nigerian","A woman possessed by demons dreams of toads in red dancing shoes."
"Nigerian","A single tree can not make a forest."
"Nigerian","A tree is known by its fruit."
"Nigerian","A smiling face dispels unhappiness."
"Nigerian","A tree does not move unless there is wind."
"Nigerian","A traveler to distant places should make no enemies."
"Nigerian","A toad does not jump around in the daytime, unless something is after its life."
"Nigerian","A tiger does not have to proclaim its tigri-tude."
"Nigerian","A thorn that pierces the toe should be burned by the light of a new moon lest the devil possess the foot."
"Nigerian","A strong man is remembered on the day of the fight, and a gluttony on the day pounded yam is surplus."
"Nigerian","A speedy wrestling and a bad fall go hand in hand."
"Nigerian","A spacious ground is the right place to demonstrate one's skill in wrestling."
"Nigerian","A wealthy man will always have followers."
"Nigerian","A child is what you put into him."
"Nigerian","A farmer does not conclude by the mere look of it that a corn is unripe; he tears it open for examination."
"Nigerian","A farmer does not boast that he has had a good harvest until his stock of yams lasts till the following harvest season."
"Nigerian","A family name is not cooked and eaten, one's life is the thing."
"Nigerian","A diviner cannot accurately divine his own future."
"Nigerian","A crowd is like a smoldering log which can spark into a flame at any time."
"Nigerian","A clay pot of water is never hot-tempered."
"Nigerian","A child's face is his mirror."
"Nigerian","A child who is carried on the back will not know how far the journey is."
"Nigerian","A farmer who would not work inside the rain and would not work under the sun, would have nothing to harvest at the end of the farming year."
"Nigerian","A child who fears beating, would never admit that he played with a missing knife."
"Nigerian","A bird does not change its feathers because the weather is bad."
"Nigerian","A child does not die because the mother's breasts are dry."
"Nigerian","A bush fowls' playground is never appreciably spacious."
"Nigerian","A bottle of oil warmed over the fire has no means of producing oil by itself."
"Nigerian","A bird that flies from the ground onto an anthill, does not know that it is still on the ground."
"Nigerian","A man who lives on the bank of a river does not use spittle to wash his hands."
"Nigerian","A bag that says it will not take more, and a traditional doctor who says he would not leave anything behind are both sure to suffer."
"Nigerian","A man who lives alone is either always overworked, or always overfed."
"Nigerian","Give me a push from my back does not mean give me a hunchback."
"Nigerian","A child who has no mother will not have scars to show on his back."
"Nigerian","A laughing jackal portends a witch in the rafters."
"Nigerian","A fight between grasshoppers is a joy to the crow."
"Nigerian","Now the marriage begins, says the woman who has been beaten with thorns."
"Nigerian","A man who has one finger pointing at another has three pointing towards himself."
"Nigerian","A man who eases himself in public, gives cause to others to despise him."
"Nigerian","A man that begets a barren cannot have a grand child."
"Nigerian","A man does not wander far from where his corn is roasting."
"Nigerian","A man can not sit down alone to plan for prosperity."
"Nigerian","A lizard that fell from the top of a tree wastes its time looking back to where it fell from; if there was anything good the lizard deserved, it could not have missed it while it was there on top of the tree."
"Nigerian","A man who is trampled to death by an elephant is a man who is blind and deaf."
"Nigerian","A hunter who has only one arrow does not shoot with careless aim."
"Nigerian","A housewife who complains that there is not enough foodstuff in the market should remember that if her husband adds to what is already available, there would be more for everyone."
"Nigerian","A herbalist that refuses to ask laymen what leaves he looks for in the bush, must have difficulties getting what he wants."
"Nigerian","A good name is better than gold."
"Nigerian","A goat owned by two people sleeps outside."
"Nigerian","A glorious past is the work of a glorious man."
"Nigerian","A friendly person is never a good-for-nothing."
"Nigerian","A fowl does not forget where it lays it eggs."
"Nigerian","A lounging lizard catches no crickets."
"Nigerian","You cannot run with the hare and hunt with the hounds."
"Nigerian","You cannot roast corn with two eyes."
"Nigerian","You cannot compare the living with the dead."
"Nigerian","When the next house is on fire, 'tis high time to look to your own."
"Nigerian","When the mice laugh at the cat, there is a hole nearby."
"Nigerian","The one being carried does not realize how far away the town is."
"Nigerian","The lizard that jumped from the high iroko tree said he would praise himself if no one else did."
"Nigerian","The house roof fights the rain, but he who is sheltered ignores it."
"Nigerian","The house sweeper's buttock is never at one direction."
"Nigerian","A tree is known by its fruit."
"Nigerian","The hunter does not rub himself in oil and lie by the fire to sleep."
"Nigerian","If death be terrible, the fault is not in death, but thee."
"Nigerian","If crocodiles eat their own eggs, what would they do to the flesh of a frog?"
"Nigerian","If a monkey is amongst dogs, why won't it start barking."
"Nigerian","Give me a push from my back does not mean give me a hunchback."
"Nigerian","If you fail to take away a strong man's sword when he is on the ground, will you do it when he gets up?"
"Nigerian","An old man is there to talk."
"Nigerian","It is the fear of offence that makes men swallow poison."
"Nigerian","A tree is best measured when it's down."
"Nigerian","A tree does not move unless there is wind."
"Nigerian","A traveler to distant places should make no enemies."
"Nigerian","A tiger does not have to proclaim its tigritude."
"Nigerian","A rat is not born a rabbit."
"Nigerian","A man does not wander far from where his corn is roasting."
"Nigerian","Fine words do not produce food."
"Nigerian","No sane person sharpens his machete to cut a banana tree."
"Nigerian","The disobedient fowl obeys in a pot of soup."
"Nigerian","The death that will kill a man begins as an appetite."
"Nigerian","Profit is profit even in Mecca."
"Nigerian","One goat cannot carry another goat's tail."
"Nigerian","Not to oversee workmen, is to leave your purse open."
"Nigerian","If one finger brought oil it soiled others."
"Nigerian","Not to know is bad; not to wish to know is worse."
"Nigerian","The frog does not jump in the daytime without reason."
"Nigerian","It takes all sorts to make a world."
"Nigerian","It takes a village to raise a child."
"Nigerian","It is the first step that is difficult."
"Nigerian","Not to know the good we have Till time has stolen the cherish'd gift away, Is cause of half the misery that we feel, And makes the world the wilderness it is."
"Nilotic","Youths look at the future, the elderly at the past, our ancestors live in the present."
"Nilotic","Youths talk first and then listen, the elderly listen and then talk."
"Nilotic","Youths look at the future, the elderly at the past, our ancestors live in the present."
"Nilotic","Youths talk first and then listen, the elderly listen and then talk."
"Norse","Praise day at even, a wife when dead, a weapon when tried, a maid when married, ice when 'tis crossed, and ale when 'tis drunk."
"Norse","The head only knows what lies nearest the heart."
"Norse","The foolish man lies awake all night Thinking of his many problems; When the morning comes he is worn out And his trouble is just as it was."
"Norse","Tell not ever an evil man if misfortunes thee befall."
"Norse","So shall she charm that thou shalt not heed the council, or words of the king."
"Norse","Seek not ever to draw to thyself in love-whispering another's wife."
"Norse","Rise never at nighttime, except thou art spying."
"Norse","Put to the sword those that disagree."
"Norse","The lame runs if he has to."
"Norse","You don't have to put out the fire when all is ash."
"Norse","One who sees his friends roasted on a spit tells all he knows."
"Norse","We speak them fairest when thoughts are falsest and wile the wisest of hearts."
"Norse","Of runes they spoke, and the reading of runes was little withheld from their lips."
"Norse","Never in speech with a foolish knave shouldst thou waste a single word."
"Norse","No friend is he who but flatters."
"Norse","Rejoice not ever at tidings of ill, but glad let thy soul be in good."
"Norse","There is mingling in friendship when man can utter all his whole mind to another."
"Norse","Let none put faith in the first sown fruit."
"Norse","Wounded to death by the words of an evil woman."
"Norse","With his ears let him listen, and look with his eyes; thus each wise man spies out the way."
"Norse","Whim rules the child, and weather the field, each is open to chance."
"Norse","Two heads cut off and thrown high into the tree have only the winds with which to scheme.."
"Norse","To be without silver is better than to be without honor."
"Norse","There is naught so vile as a fickle tongue."
"Norse","The lowest fence it the easiest to get across."
"Norse","The wolf and the dog do not play together."
"Norse","The summer moments always pass quickly."
"Norse","The speech of a maiden should no man trust nor the words which a woman says; for their hearts were shaped on a whirling wheel and falsehood fixed in their breasts."
"Norse","The shame you cannot lift away, you had better let lie."
"Norse","The man that walks his own rode, walks alone."
"Norse","The madman often tells the truth."
"Norse","Thou shalt never sleep in the arms of a sorceress, lest she should lock thy limbs."
"Norse","A lying tongue had bereft him of life, and all without reason of right."
"Norse","Care shall gnaw thy heart if thou canst not tell all thy mind to another."
"Norse","Brawl with a pig and you go away with his stink."
"Norse","Be not a shoemaker nor yet a shaft maker save for thyself alone: let the shoe be misshapen, or crooked the shaft, and a curse on thy head will be called."
"Norse","Be never the first with friend of thine to break the bond of fellowship."
"Norse","At every door-way, ere one enters, one should spy round."
"Norse","Cattle die and kinsmen die, thyself too soon must die, but one thing never, I ween, will die, The doom on each one dead."
"Norse","A man who has his feet hacked off cannot scurry far."
"Norse","A boy's will is the will of the wind."
"Norse","A head stuck on a pike no longer conspires."
"Norse","A club drenched in blood easily finds its mark."
"Norse","A cleaved head no longer plots."
"Norse","A bird of Unmindfulness flutters o'er ale feasts."
"Norse","Many a sweet maid when one knows her mind is fickle found towards men."
"Norse","Much pressed is he who fain on the hearth would seek for warmth and weal."
"Norse","A righteous man by praise will render thee firm in favor and love."
"Norse","In thy home be joyous and generous to guests discreet shalt thou be in thy bearing."
"Norse","Let no man glory in the greatness of his mind, but rather keep watch o'er his wits."
"Norse","Let him speak soft words and offer wealth who longs for a woman's love."
"Norse","Let the wary stranger who seeks refreshment keep silent with sharpened hearing."
"Norse","Less good than they say for the sons of men is the drinking oft of ale: for the more they drink, the less can they think and keep a watch o'er their wits."
"Norse","Deceit sleeps with greed."
"Norse","It is the still and silent sea that drowns a man."
"Norse","In sweet converse call the righteous to thy side, learn a healing song while thou livest."
"Norse","If haply a fool should find for himself wealth or a woman's love, pride waxes in him but wisdom never and onward he fares in his folly."
"Norse","I saw and was silent, I saw and pondered, I listened to the speech of men."
"Norse","He that learns naught will never know how one is the fool of another, for if one be rich another is poor and for that should bear no blame."
"Norse","He hath need of his wits who wanders wide."
"Norse","Happy is he who hath in himself praise and wisdom in life."
"Norse","Fear the reckoning of those you have wronged."
"Norse","It's best to search while the trail is new."
"North African","Good actions are nourishment for youths, much more than words."
"North African","Those who waste time only hurt themselves."
"North American","You cannot weld cake-dough to cast iron, nor a girl to an old man."
"North American","You have to kiss a lot of toads before you find a handsome prince."
"North American","Today is the first day of the rest of your life."
"North American","Necessity never made a good bargain."
"North American","You cannot unscramble eggs."
"North American","Necessity never made a good bargain."
"North American","You cannot unscramble eggs."
"North American","You cannot weld cake-dough to cast iron, nor a girl to an old man."
"Northern Cheyenne","Do not judge your neighbor until you walk two moons in his moccasins."
"Norwegian","Rather a bit correctly than much incorrectly."
"Norwegian","The less you know, the less you forget."
"Norwegian","The lazier a man is, the more he plans to do tomorrow."
"Norwegian","The lame man runs if he has to."
"Norwegian","The coat of truth is often lined with lies."
"Norwegian","The best gifts are those which expect no return."
"Norwegian","The age of miracles is past."
"Norwegian","The afterthought is good, but forethought is better."
"Norwegian","Sweep before your own door first before you sweep before the doorsteps of your neighbors."
"Norwegian","Shared joy is double joy."
"Norwegian","Rather free in a foreign place than a slave back home."
"Norwegian","Poor thanks is the way of the world."
"Norwegian","You can give a piece of advice, but not good luck along with that."
"Norwegian","On the road between the homes of friends, grass does not grow."
"Norwegian","The lowest fence is the easiest to get across."
"Norwegian","Not all the words that were ever uttered are worth weighing on golden scales."
"Norwegian","Men look more like their uncles on the mother's side."
"Norwegian","Many become brave when brought to bay."
"Norwegian","Luck is loaned, not owned."
"Norwegian","Shameful deeds bring on revenge."
"Norwegian","This week passed on quickly, the day after tomorrow is already Wednesday, the man said."
"Norwegian","You may go where you want, but you cannot escape yourself."
"Norwegian","You don't have to put out the fire when all is burnt out."
"Norwegian","It is better to be a free man in a small house than a slave in a big one."
"Norwegian","Wise men learn at another's expense."
"Norwegian","Latecomers see the least."
"Norwegian","What three men know then the whole world knows."
"Norwegian","Tomorrow is the day that idlers get busy."
"Norwegian","To be away is well and good, but home is where the heart is."
"Norwegian","To be a hero hang on for a minute longer."
"Norwegian","What's good is often forgotten; what's bad is often hidden."
"Norwegian","Those who want to sing will always find a song."
"Norwegian","The old are the eldest."
"Norwegian","There's no shame in clothing you haven't cut yourself."
"Norwegian","There is no wind that blows right for the sailor who doesn't know where the harbor is."
"Norwegian","There is never a fish without a bone, and no man without faults."
"Norwegian","The thief thinks everybody steals."
"Norwegian","The taller the house, the heavier the storm."
"Norwegian","The stomach is not content with nice words."
"Norwegian","The shame you can't lift away, you had better let lie."
"Norwegian","The pardon may be more severe than the penalty."
"Norwegian","The old bucks got the stiffest horns."
"Norwegian","Time has strong teeth."
"Norwegian","Ask for advice, and then use your brain."
"Norwegian","Don't cross the stream to find water."
"Norwegian","Burnt child fears fire."
"Norwegian","Blood is thicker than water."
"Norwegian","Black soil produces white bread."
"Norwegian","Better early than late."
"Norwegian","Better an iron dictatorship than a golden anarchy."
"Norwegian","Better a free bird than a king in captivity."
"Norwegian","Behind the clouds the sky is always blue."
"Norwegian","Dont sell the skin, until you have shot the bear."
"Norwegian","Ask for advice, then use your head."
"Norwegian","An empty head gets the easiest sleep."
"Norwegian","It's too late to shut the stable door after the horse has bolted."
"Norwegian","All weather is passing."
"Norwegian","It is the great north wind that made the Vikings."
"Norwegian","A sip at a time empties the cask."
"Norwegian","A little thing can ruin the whole thing."
"Norwegian","A hero is one who knows how to hang on one minute longer."
"Norwegian","A boy's will is the will of the wind."
"Norwegian","A blushing lie is better than the pale truth."
"Norwegian","Bad is called good when worse happens."
"Norwegian","He who leaves a good name does not die poor."
"Norwegian","A small but excellent party, said the man, he was drinking alone."
"Norwegian","It's too late to close the stable door after the horse has escaped."
"Norwegian","It's too bad to want a thing and not be allowed it."
"Norwegian","It's no shame to look into the warm spring sun and regret a lost limb."
"Norwegian","It is the law that judges, not the judge."
"Norwegian","It is better to feed one cat than many mice."
"Norwegian","In the game no one is brother to others."
"Norwegian","In every woman there is a Queen. Speak to the Queen, and the Queen will answer."
"Norwegian","Early bird gets the worm."
"Norwegian","Heroism consists of hanging on one minute longer."
"Norwegian","He who has a dog need not bark himself."
"Norwegian","He who does no evil does a lot of good."
"Norwegian","He that lies on the floor doesn't fall down."
"Norwegian","Good fortune is loaned, not owned."
"Norwegian","Given counsel is all the same hard to take."
"Norwegian","Gather and spare can last long."
"Norwegian","Fish bite best on a golden hook."
"Norwegian","Everybody's friend is true to none."
"Norwegian","Every family has its hanger-on."
"Norwegian","If the glacier perceives a headless army is clumsy, it feels a sort of emphatic guilt, I dare say."
"Norwegian","Shameful deeds bring on revenge."
"Norwegian","Everybody's friend is true to none."
"Norwegian","You don't have to put out the fire when all is burnt out."
"Norwegian","You can give a piece of advice, but not good luck along with that."
"Norwegian","What's good is often forgotten; what's bad is often hidden."
"Norwegian","There's no shame in clothing you haven't cut yourself."
"Norwegian","The shame you can't lift away, you had better let lie."
"Norwegian","The lowest fence is the easiest to get across."
"Norwegian","The lame man runs if he has to."
"Norwegian","It's no shame to look into the warm spring sun and regret a lost limb."
"Norwegian","The afterthought is good, but forethought is better."
"Norwegian","Rather free in a foreign place than a slave back home."
"Norwegian","Rather a bit correctly than much incorrectly."
"Norwegian","On the road between the homes of friends, grass does not grow."
"Norwegian","It's too late to shut the stable door after the horse has bolted."
"Norwegian","It's too bad to want a thing and not be allowed it."
"Norwegian","In every woman there is a Queen. Speak to the Queen and the Queen will answer."
"Norwegian","If the glacier perceives a headless army is clumsy, it feels a sort of emphatic guilt, I dare say."
"Norwegian","Heroism consists of hanging on one minute longer."
"Norwegian","Given counsel is all the same hard to take."
"Norwegian","Gather and spare can last long."
"Norwegian","The age of miracles is past."
"Ntomba","Who takes a hut, also takes the rats and cockroaches."
"Ntomba","You are invited to join the hunt when your nets are in evidence."
"Ntomba","A rooster does not sing on two roofs."
"Ntomba","A youth that does not cultivate friendship with the elderly is like a tree without roots."
"Nupe","To trouble me is better than to forget me."
"Nyang","Once the manioca is in your stomach it's gone."
"Nyanja","A child brought up where there is always dancing cannot fail to dance."
"Oglala Sioux","There can never be peace between nations until it is first known that true peace is within the souls of men."
"Oglala Sioux","To touch the earth is to have harmony with nature."
"Oglala Sioux","When we understand deeply in out hearts, we will fear and love and know the great spirit."
"Oji","A crooked stick makes us know the carpenter."
"Oji","He is a fool whose sheep runs away twice."
"Oji","When you go to fetch water and do not return, they do not inquire about the pot."
"Ojibway","I am being carried on great wings across the sky."
"Okinawian","Be as hard as the world requires you to be, and as soft as the world allows you to be."
"Okinawian","Be as hard as the world requires you to be, and as soft as the world allows you to be."
"Old Asian","A person who doesn't know but knows that he doesn't know is a student; teach him. A person who knows but who doesn't know what he knows is asleep; awaken him. But a person who knows and knows that he knows is wise; follow him."
"Old Moslem","Trust in God, but tie your camel."
"Omaha","The lazy man is apt to be envious."
"Omaha","Ask questions from your heart and you will be answered from the heart."
"Omaha","He who is present at a wrongdoing and does not lift a hand to prevent it is guilty as the wrongdoers."
"Omaha","In anger a man becomes dangerous to himself and to others."
"Omaha","It takes a whole village to raise a child."
"Omani","If your motive is good, a farting donkey won't harm you."
"Omani","Who has a habit, will never leave it even if his finger gets cut."
"Omani","What is late is great."
"Omani","The look is is a look, but the meaning is weak."
"Omani","Live near water, and ask not about sustenance."
"Omani","Do not leave todays homework for tomorrow."
"Omani","Build with silver and cover with gold."
"Omani","Every village has certain drawbacks to it."
"Omani","Bird goes up, bird goes down."
"Omani","Birds align with grain, but not with the stick."
"Oriental","Do not talk Arabic in the house of a Moor."
"Oriental","If you wish your merit to be known, acknowledge that of other people."
"Oriental","If you wish your merit to be known, acknowledge that of other people."
"Oromo","'what shall i add for the poor?' asked god. 'fingernails and itch,' answered the poor."
"Oromo","To fight once shows bravery, but to fight all the time is stupid."
"Osage","Strive to be a person who is never absent from an important act."
"Ovambo","The bird will not fly into your arrow."
"Ovambo","You cannot avoid what lies in ambush for you."
"Ovambo","The person to whom things are brought does not know the length of the road."
"Ovambo","Supposing doesn't fill the grain basket; 'if' doesn't fill the larder."
"Ovambo","A parasite can not live alone."
"Ovambo","There is not enough room for two elephants to sit in the same shade."
"Ovambo","If you are not told about it, you go among people soiled."
"Ovambo","Coward, strangle your fear, or else you will strangle yourself."
"Ovambo","Night is followed by day, famine by abundance."
"Ovambo","You cannot avoid what lies in ambush for you."
"Ovimbundu","The wind effects leaves, while violence men."
"Paiute","A hungry stomach makes a short prayer."
"Pakistani","Teaching a Jew to deal in the market is like teaching grandmother to eat her eggs."
"Pakistani","One who is free to sin, sins less; the very power weakens the seeds of sin."
"Pakistani","You are sure to marry a woman either beautiful or ugly; If ugly she will be a punishment; if beautiful, you will share her with others. Therefore do not marry."
"Palestinian","Who has no past, has no future."
"Palestinian","There will be a day for the oppressor when he will be crushed like garlic."
"Palestinian","If you feed the mouth, the eye becomes shy."
"Palestinian","The one who loves does not hate."
"Palestinian","The eye is the one that eats."
"Palestinian","The eye of a master does more work than both his hands."
"Palestinian","The eye sees, but the hand can't reach."
"Palestinian","The eye will often wander The road that love has taught."
"Palestinian","The heart is a tree; it grows where it wants."
"Palestinian","The eye cannot rise above the eyebrow."
"Palestinian","The ignorant is his own enemy."
"Palestinian","The empty gives the way to the full."
"Palestinian","If you sit at a crossroads, you will get sick."
"Palestinian","Nobody is perfect."
"Palestinian","Nobody will cut a head off except the One who put it on."
"Palestinian","Nobody will plough the land except its cows."
"Palestinian","Nobody's perfect."
"Palestinian","Once deep pools, now a crossing place."
"Palestinian","The house is our father's and the strangers came to kick us out."
"Palestinian","You will not dare mistreating the face you see in the morning."
"Palestinian","Those who dig an evil hole will fall into it."
"Palestinian","Those who digs an evil hole will fall into it."
"Palestinian","Too far for jackals? No worthwhile tree here."
"Palestinian","Whatever is written on the forehead is always seen."
"Palestinian","Whatever man had done, man may do."
"Palestinian","Where there is abundance, there is poverty."
"Palestinian","The eye does not get over the eyebrow."
"Palestinian","You only hear three voices in this world: the babbling of the stream, Jewish law, and money."
"Palestinian","Your close neighbor is better than your faraway brother."
"Palestinian","One thumb alone does not kill a louse."
"Palestinian","Only the soil knows when a young mouse is ill."
"Palestinian","One hand can't clap."
"Palestinian","Pride is the mask of our sins."
"Palestinian","Sell what you have bought while the dust is still on your shoes."
"Palestinian","Don't just cross a river -- cross it bearing fire."
"Palestinian","Do good if you expect to receive it."
"Palestinian","IF only I were a bird! Ah, but eating caterpillars?"
"Palestinian","Hit the iron while it's still hot."
"Palestinian","Go with the powerful and people will kneel before you."
"Palestinian","Far from grave, no praying."
"Palestinian","Every sheep is hung by its own leg."
"Palestinian","Every eye has its look."
"Palestinian","Do not drink from a well and throw a stone into it."
"Palestinian","Do good and throw it in the sea."
"Palestinian","Care now, be cared for later."
"Palestinian","Away from the eye, away from the mind."
"Palestinian","A friend in need is a friend indeed."
"Palestinian","Long ago did not live long ago."
"Palestinian","Do not drink poison to quench a thirst."
"Palestinian","You will not dare mistreat the face you see in the morning."
"Palestinian","Nobody's perfect."
"Palestinian","The empty gives way to the full."
"Palestinian","The eye is the one that eats."
"Palestinian","The eye of a master does more work than both his hands."
"Palestinian","The eye sees, but the hand can't reach."
"Palestinian","The eye will often wander The road that love has taught."
"Palestinian","The ignorant is his own enemy."
"Palestinian","Away from the eye, away from the mind."
"Palestinian","Whatever man had done, man may do."
"Palestinian","Your close neighbor is better than your faraway brother."
"Palestinian","Nobody will plough the land except its cows."
"Palestinian","Every sheep is hung by its own leg."
"Palestinian","Every eye has its look."
"Palestinian","Do not drink poison to quench a thirst."
"Palestinian","Do not drink from a well and throw a stone into it."
"Palestinian","Do good if you expect to receive it."
"Palestinian","Do good and throw it in the sea."
"Palestinian","Whatever is written on the forehead is always seen."
"Pampango","If you buy things you don't need, you'll soon be selling things you do."
"Pampango","If you buy things you don't need, you'll soon be selling things you do."
"Panamanian","The wise man affirms little and doubts much."
"Panamanian","A proverb is to speech what salt is to food."
"Panamanian","Among the weak, the strongest is the one who doesn't forget his weakness."
"Panamanian","Half of an orange tastes just as sweet as a whole one."
"Panamanian","If there was not bad taste, goods would not be sold."
"Panamanian","If you want no disappointments, don't indulge in illusions."
"Panamanian","The leafiest tree doesn't always have the juiciest fruit."
"Panamanian","Speak whenever you must, hush whenever you can."
"Panamanian","Though you possess prudence, old man, do not despise advice."
"Panamanian","When the eyes see nothing, the heart feels nothing."
"Panamanian","Whether the pitcher strike the stone or the stone the pitcher, the pitcher suffers."
"Paraguayan","A hatchet in the mouth is more harmful than a hatchet in the hand."
"Paraguayan","It is a rarity to find someone who can weigh other people's faults without putting his own thumbs on the scale."
"Paraguayan","Gratitude is the least of virtues; ingratitude is the worst of vices."
"Paraguayan","Rare is the person who can weigh the faults of another without putting his thumb on the scale."
"Paraguayan","Gratitude ranks as the least of virtues, and the lack of gratitude is the worst of vices."
"Pawnee","Misfortunes will happen to the wisest and best of men."
"Pawnee","What is past and cannot be prevented should not be grieved for."
"Pawnee","Misfortunes do not flourish on one path, they grow everywhere."
"Pennsylvania Dutch","Our faults irritate us most when we see them in others."
"Pennsylvania Dutch","Our faults irritate us most when we see them in others."
"Pennsylvania Dutch","We grow too soon old and too late smart."
"Persian","Use your enemy's hand to catch a snake."
"Persian","A beggar will always be a beggar even if they give him the whole world as a gift."
"Persian","That smells bad, said the cat about meat that it cannot reach."
"Persian","A bad wound heals, but a bad word doesn't."
"Persian","A blind man who sees is better than a sighted man who is blind."
"Persian","A blind person who sees is better than a seeing person who is blind."
"Persian","A broken hand works, but not a broken heart."
"Persian","A dog by your side is better than a brother miles away."
"Persian","A coquettish woman is like a shadow -- as you chase her she runs away, and if you run away, she chases after you."
"Persian","A child is a bridge to heaven."
"Persian","A broken sleeve holdeth the arm back."
"Persian","A friend is a poem."
"Persian","A camel does not drink with a spoon."
"Persian","The horse is Turkmen, it eats from both the nose-bag and the manger."
"Persian","The earth is a host who kills his guests."
"Persian","The eyes can do a thousand things that the fingers can't."
"Persian","The fireside is the tulip bed of a winter day."
"Persian","The fool's excuse is bigger than the mistake he made."
"Persian","The guard's sleep is the lamplight of the thief."
"Persian","The drowning man is not troubled by rain."
"Persian","The hand that gives is also the one that receives."
"Persian","The blind man is laughing at the bald head."
"Persian","The lack of gold only a headache."
"Persian","The halfwit spoke, and the brainless believed."
"Persian","The doctor must heal his own bald head."
"Persian","The cripple will always find a stone to kick."
"Persian","The branch that bears the most fruit bends itself thankfully towards the ground."
"Persian","The larger a man's roof, the more snow it collects."
"Persian","The bigger a man's head, the worse his headache."
"Persian","The big drum only sounds well from a distance."
"Persian","The best of men are but men at best."
"Persian","The best of friends must part."
"Persian","The best mode of instruction is to practise what we preach."
"Persian","The world is a rose: smell it and pass it on to your friends."
"Persian","The bride who wears four petticoats has a lot to hide."
"Persian","The sky is the same color wherever you go."
"Persian","One pound of learning requires ten pounds of common sense to apply it."
"Persian","The wise man who does not put his knowledge into practice is like a bee that gives no honey."
"Persian","The best memory is that which forgets nothing, but injuries. Write kindness in marble and write injuries in the dust."
"Persian","The water has passed his head."
"Persian","The water doesn't move."
"Persian","The walls have mice, the mice have ears."
"Persian","The virtuous will be praised but not envied."
"Persian","The tongue of men is the whip of God."
"Persian","The wise man sits on the hole in his carpet."
"Persian","The strictness of the teacher is better to bear than the prejudice of the father."
"Persian","The loveliest faces are to be seen by moonlight, when one sees half with the eye and half with the fancy."
"Persian","The sky is of the same color wherever you go."
"Persian","The shoemaker's shoes have no heels."
"Persian","The public improves the speaker's speech."
"Persian","The pleasure of finding something is worth more than what you find."
"Persian","The needle makes clothes but stays naked."
"Persian","The mud that you throw will fall on your own head."
"Persian","The mediator in a fight gets all the blows."
"Persian","The lover who gives you her body but not her heart is generous with thornless roses."
"Persian","The loveliest of faces are to be seen by moonlight, when one sees half with the eye and half with the fancy."
"Persian","The tears of the roasting meat kindle the fire even more."
"Persian","Maturity comes from wisdom not in the passing of years."
"Persian","Once a friend, always a friend."
"Persian","Often the best way of giving oneself what one lacks is to take from oneself what one has."
"Persian","Of everything else the newest; of friends, the oldest."
"Persian","Not everyone who sings a lullaby stays awake."
"Persian","Nobody sees a miracle from this shrine."
"Persian","No lamp burns till morning."
"Persian","Never open a door that you can't lock again."
"Persian","Necessity turns lion into fox."
"Persian","One sip of wine is an antidote against death, cupfuls poison life."
"Persian","May God strike the rich man blind by his own gold."
"Persian","One good father can do more than 100 schoolmasters."
"Persian","Make bread while the oven is hot."
"Persian","Luck is infatuated with the efficient."
"Persian","Look at the strainer that tells the skimmer: You have three holes."
"Persian","Little by little the wool becomes a carpet."
"Persian","Little by little the cotton thread becomes a turban."
"Persian","Listening to good advice is the way to wealth."
"Persian","Life is like perpetual drunkenness, the pleasure passes but the headache remains."
"Persian","Left from there, driven from here."
"Persian","Learn good manners from those who don't have them."
"Persian","Necessity changes a lion into a fox."
"Persian","Raise what you've given birth to."
"Persian","The arrow that has left the bow never returns."
"Persian","Taking the first step with the good thought, the second with the good word, and the third with the good deed, I enter paradise."
"Persian","Take from the hungry, give it to the full/satisfied."
"Persian","Stretch your foot to the length of your blanket."
"Persian","Stand so much until grass grows under your foot."
"Persian","Spring won't come from one flower."
"Persian","Spectators see better than actors."
"Persian","Sometimes the body becomes healthy by being very sick."
"Persian","Silence betokens consent."
"Persian","Once I had the strength but no wisdom; now I have the wisdom but no strength."
"Persian","Seek truth in meditation, not in moldy books. Look in the sky to find the moon, not in the pond."
"Persian","One finger cannot lift a pebble."
"Persian","Poured clear water on hiher hands."
"Persian","Play, play, with the beard of the father also play?"
"Persian","Our real grave is not in the ground but in men's hearts."
"Persian","Oosta Alam, take this one into account."
"Persian","One spark is enough to burn a hundred worlds."
"Persian","The world is a rose:smell it and pass it on to your friends."
"Persian","One sin is too much, a hundred prayers are not enough."
"Persian","Use your enemy's hand to catch a snake."
"Persian","The best memory is that which forgets nothing, but injuries. Write kindness in marble and write injuries in the dust."
"Persian","Seven sets of ewers, but no dinner nor lunch."
"Persian","While yearning for excess we lose the necessities."
"Persian","With one ear he hears, and with the other he dismisses."
"Persian","With a sweet tongue of kindness, you can drag an elephant by a hair."
"Persian","With a sweet tongue and kindness, you can drag an elephant by a hair."
"Persian","Why would a pool that doesn't have water need so many frogs?"
"Persian","Whoever has no children has no light in his eyes."
"Persian","Whoever can walk on water is probably made of straw."
"Persian","Who sows barley cannot reap wheat."
"Persian","Who has not had a taste longs to do so, but for whom has tasted then the longing is a hundred times more."
"Persian","When its time has come, the prey goes to the hunter."
"Persian","Who does not beat his own child will later beat his own breast."
"Persian","Woe to being a housewife/househusband, you buy one thing, you don't have two others."
"Persian","Whether you were gold or satin, you're the same acanthus-seller."
"Persian","Where the camel is sold for a cent, the ass is worthless."
"Persian","When water stays at one place, it rots."
"Persian","When there's fire, dry and wet burn together."
"Persian","When there are two cooks, the soup becomes either salty or saltless."
"Persian","When the water goes uphill, the frog sings AbuAta."
"Persian","When the tide of misfortune moves over you, even jelly will break your teeth."
"Persian","When the snake is old, the frog will tease him."
"Persian","Try it first and then say it's saltless."
"Persian","Who has ever seen tomorrow?"
"Persian","You can't please everyone."
"Persian","You've grazed so much, where's your tail-fat?"
"Persian","You only appreciate your father the day you become a father yourself."
"Persian","You don't put a wooden pot on the fire twice."
"Persian","You cannot hang everything on one nail."
"Persian","You cannot applaud with one hand."
"Persian","You can't take blood from a stone."
"Persian","You can't squeeze blood from a rock."
"Persian","You can't put new wine in old bottles."
"Persian","You can't put an old head on young shoulders."
"Persian","With this beard you want to go to Tajrish?"
"Persian","You can't polish a turd."
"Persian","Woe is he who claims to have found happiness."
"Persian","You can't pick up two melons with one hand."
"Persian","You can't escape death and guests."
"Persian","You can close the city gates but not the mouths of men."
"Persian","You became full by eating, it won't happen by licking."
"Persian","You ask the donkey when's Wednesday?"
"Persian","Work is twice done by the man in a hurry."
"Persian","Women are just like cats -- they always land on their feet."
"Persian","Woe to Leili's doogh, the yogurt was too little and the water too much."
"Persian","When its time has arrived, the prey becomes the hunter."
"Persian","You can't push on a rope."
"Persian","Thinking is the essence of wisdom."
"Persian","The devil looks after his own."
"Persian","Uneaten soup and burned mouth."
"Persian","Kettledrum's sound is nice when heard from afar."
"Persian","Trust in God -- but tie your camel tight."
"Persian","Treat your superior as a father, your equal as a brother, and your inferior as a son."
"Persian","To the ant, a few drops of dew is a flood."
"Persian","Those who are richer, are needier."
"Persian","This is not Kashan where the heap comes with the coolies."
"Persian","When the cat and the mouse agree, the grocer is ruined."
"Persian","Thinking well is wise; planning well, wiser; but doing well is the wisest and best of all."
"Persian","Water has leaked under her/his skin."
"Persian","Thick body, weak soul."
"Persian","They don't count the teeth of a gift horse."
"Persian","These words won't become a loose skirt for Fati."
"Persian","There is water in the jug, and we're going around thirsty."
"Persian","There is no need for fish in an empty pond."
"Persian","There are three things that have to be done quickly: burying the dead, opening the door for a stranger, and fixing your daughter's wedding."
"Persian","There are three kinds of enemy: the enemy himself, the friends of your enemy, and the enemies of your friends."
"Persian","There are four things in this life of which we have more than we think: faults, debts, years and enemies."
"Persian","There are four things every person has more of than they know; sins, debt, years, and foes."
"Persian","This caravan is lame until doomsday."
"Persian","What you give away you keep."
"Persian","When I am dead the world can be an ocean or a dried up ditch."
"Persian","When fortune turns against you, even jelly breaks your teeth."
"Persian","When fate strikes physicians are useless."
"Persian","When a stone hits glass, the glass breaks. When glass hits a stone, the glass breaks."
"Persian","When a lion is old, he becomes the plaything of jackals."
"Persian","When a cat wants to eat her kittens, she says they look like mice."
"Persian","Whatever you sow, you reap."
"Persian","Whatever you eat will rot, whatever you give will blossom into a rose."
"Persian","Whatever is in the heart will come up to the tongue."
"Persian","Walls have mice and mice have ears."
"Persian","What you've brought for me, take for your aunt."
"Persian","Water does not trickle out of his hand."
"Persian","What the thief stole has always been called expensive."
"Persian","What my heart wanted didn't happen -- What God wanted, that happened."
"Persian","What is brought by the wind will be carried away by the wind."
"Persian","What can the enemy do when the friend is cordial."
"Persian","We're alive from lack of a shroud."
"Persian","We might've fallen from the horse, but not from the honor."
"Persian","We come into this world crying while all around us are smiling. May we so live that we go out of this world smiling while everybody around us is weeping."
"Persian","Water is muddy at the fountainhead."
"Persian","The world is a rose; smell it and pass it on to your friends."
"Persian","Whatever I disliked, happened to me."
"Persian","Don't borrow from a baby-boomer, if you borrow, don't spend it."
"Persian","Every man is the king of his own beard."
"Persian","Every man goes down to his death bearing in his hands only that which he has given away."
"Persian","Every fault that a Sultan pleases can be a quality."
"Persian","Epigrams succeed where epics fail."
"Persian","Drawn wells have sweetest water."
"Persian","Draw not thy bow before thy arrow be fixed."
"Persian","Doubtful the die, and dire the cast."
"Persian","Doubt makes the mountain which faith can move."
"Persian","Go and wake up your luck."
"Persian","Don't just take love, experience it."
"Persian","Everyone thinks his own spit tastes good."
"Persian","Don't be afraid of he who's loud and noisy, be afraid of he who's head is down."
"Persian","Do well the little things now; so shall great things come to thee by and by asking to be done."
"Persian","Do not use words that are too big for your mouth."
"Persian","Do not let the cat watch over the bacon."
"Persian","Do not cut down the tree that gives you shade."
"Persian","Do not choose for anyone what you do not choose for yourself."
"Persian","Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?"
"Persian","Do little things now; so shall big things come to thee by and by asking to be done."
"Persian","Debts are like women, once you have them you can't get rid of them."
"Persian","Doubt is the key to knowledge."
"Persian","For crystal rain falls from black clouds."
"Persian","Giving advice to the ignorant is like the rain falling on muddy ground."
"Persian","Give nine, save ten."
"Persian","Get along with the village headman, plunder the village."
"Persian","From you motion, from God blessing."
"Persian","From truth to falsehood there's a four-finger distance."
"Persian","From this column to that column may be a relief."
"Persian","From sudden desire of halim he fell in the pot."
"Persian","From afar he takes the heart, from nearby the gall-bladder."
"Persian","Four walls make a man free."
"Persian","Every rock strikes the feet of the poor."
"Persian","For his master the dog is a lion."
"Persian","Every tear has a smile behind it."
"Persian","For an ant to have wings would be his undoing."
"Persian","Flies will never leave the shop of a sweetmaker."
"Persian","Flies will easily fly into the honey -- their problem is how to get out."
"Persian","First prove your brotherhood, then claim inheritance."
"Persian","First goblet and then drunkenness."
"Persian","Fear those who do not fear God."
"Persian","Experience is a comb which nature gives to men when they are bald."
"Persian","Expect trust from a dog but not from a woman."
"Persian","Credit is better than wealth."
"Persian","Forgiveness hides a pleasure that you can't get back from revenge."
"Persian","A sharp tongue will cut off its own head."
"Persian","Death is a camel that lies down at every door."
"Persian","Acquaintance without patience is like a candle with no light."
"Persian","A wolf's repentance died a long time ago."
"Persian","A visitor comes with ten blessings, eats one, and leaves nine."
"Persian","It's from us that is on us."
"Persian","A thief is a king until he is caught."
"Persian","The dog is a lion in his own house."
"Persian","A tear at the right moment is better than a misplaced smile."
"Persian","A sword in the hands of a drunken slave is less dangerous than science in the hands of the unscrupulous."
"Persian","An alive person needs life."
"Persian","A snake can change its skin but not its disposition."
"Persian","An arrow can be pulled out of a wound, but a hurtful word stays forever in your heart."
"Persian","A mirror does not reflect a broken heart."
"Persian","A man's servant can live for a hundred years; the slave of a woman dies in six months."
"Persian","A man without passion is no son of Adam."
"Persian","A man without a child is a king without sorrows."
"Persian","A man can pose as a wise when searching for wisdom, but if he believes to have find it, is a fool."
"Persian","A hungry person dreams of sangak bread."
"Persian","A greedy man is always poor."
"Persian","A gentle hand may lead even an elephant by a single hair."
"Persian","A friend is like a poem."
"Persian","A stone thrown at the right time is better than a stone thrown at the wrong time."
"Persian","Bam's eggplant doesn't have a defect."
"Persian","A thief knows a thief as a wolf knows a wolf."
"Persian","Courtesy on one side can never last long."
"Persian","Courtesie is cumbersome to them that ken it not."
"Persian","Courteous men learn courtesy from the discourteous."
"Persian","Comfortable is he who doesn't have a donkey -- Doesn't know of its straw and barley."
"Persian","By a sweet tongue and kindness, you can drag an elephant with a hair."
"Persian","Bugbear took it all."
"Persian","Bribery makes both parties happy."
"Persian","Bravery without foresight is like a blind horse."
"Persian","All work is as seed sown; it grows and spreads, and sows itself anew."
"Persian","Be a lion at home and a fox abroad."
"Persian","Crooked load will not get to the destination."
"Persian","Bake the bread while the oven is hot."
"Persian","Aspiration is not a defect for youngsters."
"Persian","As the wise man looks for a bridge the fool crosses the river."
"Persian","As the best wine makes the sharpest vinegar, the truest lover may turn into the worst enemy."
"Persian","As soon as a man gets new trousers, he thinks about a new wife."
"Persian","As long as the clouds dolt weep, the pasture cannot laugh."
"Persian","Arabic is a language, Persian is a delicacy and Turkish is an art."
"Persian","An ungrateful son is a wart on his father's nose -- he leaves it, it's ugly, he removes it, it hurts."
"Persian","An egg thief becomes a camel thief."
"Persian","Beware a rickety wall, a savage dog, and a quarrelsome person."
"Persian","If he has seven blind daughters, he will marry them in an hour."
"Persian","If the teacher be corrupt, the world will be corrupt."
"Persian","If the Sultan demands five eggs, let his soldiers roast a thousand chickens."
"Persian","If the Lor doesn't go to bazaar, everything will rot."
"Persian","If regret was a horn, one's horn would reach the sky."
"Persian","If one has to jump a stream and knows how wide it is, he will not jump. If he does not know how wide it is, he will jump, and six times out of ten he will make it."
"Persian","Go as far as you can see, and when you get there you'll see further."
"Persian","If it doesn't have water for me, instead it has bread for you."
"Persian","If he was any good, his name would be Kheirollah."
"Persian","I used to feel sorry for myself because I had no shoes until I met a man who was dead."
"Persian","If he hasn't seen her/his father, he would claim to be a king."
"Persian","If you enter the city of the blind, cover your eyes."
"Persian","If fortune turns against you, even jelly breaks your tooth."
"Persian","If everybody said bread and cheese, you put your head down and die."
"Persian","If children's prayer had any effect, there wouldn't be a single teacher alive."
"Persian","If Ali is the camel-driver, he knows where to rest his camel."
"Persian","If Akbar doesn't give, Akbar's God gives."
"Persian","If a man would live in peace, he should be blind, deaf, and dumb."
"Persian","If a fool borrows a book cut off his hand; but cut off both hands of the fool who brings it back."
"Persian","I've seen your top, I've seen your bottom also."
"Persian","I wept because I had no shoes, until I saw a man who had no feet."
"Persian","If he says yogurt is white, I'll say it's black."
"Persian","In the hour of adversity be not without hope."
"Persian","It takes two days to learn everything about a man; to know animals you will need more time."
"Persian","It is too late for you, let God give your children some intelligence."
"Persian","It is nothing for one to know something unless another knows you know it."
"Persian","It is not from the love of God that the cat catches mice."
"Persian","It is better to be in chains with friends, than to be in a garden with strangers."
"Persian","It is a wise man who can laugh at his own jokes."
"Persian","It is a real compliment that comes from an enemy."
"Persian","Injustice all round is justice."
"Persian","In your neighbors' soup there is always one fatty morsel."
"Persian","If there are two cooks in one house, the soup is either too salty or too cold."
"Persian","In this world generous people have no money and those with money are not generous."
"Persian","If you can give me no ointment for my wound, can you help me by not rubbing salt in?"
"Persian","In the hotel of decisions the guests sleep well."
"Persian","If you're a shoveler, shovel your garden first."
"Persian","If you're a reed-player, why did your father die of typhoid fever?"
"Persian","If you walk with your feet your shoe will get worn, if you walk with your head, your hat."
"Persian","If you tell the truth too early, you are laughed at -- too late and you are stoned."
"Persian","If you really have to sin, then choose a sin that you enjoy."
"Persian","If you know lullaby, why can't you sleep?"
"Persian","If you fall into a pit, Providence is under no obligation to come and look for you."
"Persian","If I haven't eaten wheat-bread, I've seen it in people's hands."
"Persian","In winter a fire is better than a muscat blossom."
"Persian","He eats sheep-tail with the wold, and cries with the shephard."
"Persian","He takes from one ear, and lets it out from the other ear."
"Persian","He pushes it away with the hand, but pulls it forward with the foot."
"Persian","he makes the water muddy to fish."
"Persian","he keeps her/his face red with slaps."
"Persian","He is still alive because he cannot afford a funeral."
"Persian","he has lost the horse, but is looking for the horseshoe."
"Persian","he has fallen from the donkey, but has found a date."
"Persian","he has eaten so many snakes that has become a viper."
"Persian","He gives him roast meat and beats him with the spit."
"Persian","He that sows shall also reap."
"Persian","He gives a party with bath-water."
"Persian","Habits are first cobwebs, then cables."
"Persian","He doesn't see water, otherwise he is a skilled swimmer."
"Persian","I tried to do charity, I burned."
"Persian","Great needs grow from great possessions."
"Persian","If my aunt had a beard, this man would be my uncle."
"Persian","Gold bears more gold."
"Persian","God provides, but He needs a nudge."
"Persian","God gives to us according to the measure of our hearts."
"Persian","Go slowly and come slowly so that the cat won't gore you."
"Persian","Go further and fare worse."
"Persian","he gives from caliph's bag."
"Persian","A thief is a king till he's caught."
"Persian","Good grape becomes fox's possession."
"Persian","he tried to pluck under her/his eyebrow, but blinded the eye."
"Persian","I poured our own flour and hung our hairsieve."
"Persian","I murmured because I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no feet."
"Persian","I have no right to rejoice at the death of my enemy when I do not have eternal life myself."
"Persian","I gave so much advice that hair grew on my tongue."
"Persian","I eat what others have planted and I plant what others want to eat."
"Persian","I can only get better if I have good friends."
"Persian","He whose heart is aroused by love will never die."
"Persian","He who wants the rose must respect the thorn."
"Persian","He who has only one enemy, meets him everywhere."
"Persian","He who doesn't go to war roars like a lion."
"Persian","He who eats alone is Satan's brother."
"Persian","Heaven is at the feet of mothers."
"Persian","He who has been bitten by a snake fears a piece of string."
"Persian","It's better to fly and stay alive than to die a hero."
"Persian","He who knows not, and knows not that he knows not, is a fool, shun him; He who knows not, and knows that he knows not, is a child, teach him. He who knows, and knows not that he knows, is asleep, wake him. He who knows, and knows that he knows, is wise, follow him."
"Persian","He who sits waiting for his neighbor will go to bed hungry."
"Persian","He who want a rose must respect the thorn."
"Persian","He who wants content can't find an easy chair."
"Persian","He who has a clean account, what fear of calculation does he have?"
"Persian","If one has to jump a stream and knows how wide it is, he will not jump. If he does not know how wide it is, he will jump, and six times out of ten he will make it."
"Persian","No lamp burns till morning."
"Persian","He gives him roast meat and beats him with the spit."
"Persian","He who want a rose must respect the thorn."
"Persian","He who wants a rose must respect the thorn."
"Persian","He who wants content can't find an easy chair."
"Persian","I used to feel sorry for myself because I had no shoes until I met a man who was dead."
"Persian","If a man would live in peace, he should be blind, deaf, and dumb."
"Persian","The wise man sits on the hole in his carpet."
"Persian","If the teacher be corrupt, the world will be corrupt."
"Persian","Go as far as you can see, and when you get there you'll see further."
"Persian","One pound of learning requires ten pounds of common sense to apply it."
"Persian","Taking the first step with the good thought, the second with the good word, and the third with the good deed, I enter paradise."
"Persian","The best memory is that which forgets nothing but injuries. Write kindness in marble and write injuries in the dust."
"Persian","The best mode of instruction is to practise what we preach."
"Persian","The best of men are but men at best."
"Persian","The blind man is laughing at the bald head."
"Persian","The doctor must heal his own bald head."
"Persian","If fortune turns against you, even jelly breaks your tooth."
"Persian","Courtesie is cumbersome to them that ken it not."
"Persian","A bad wound heals but a bad word doesn't."
"Persian","A broken hand works, but not a broken heart."
"Persian","A broken sleeve holdeth the arm back."
"Persian","A stone thrown at the right time is better than gold given at the wrong time."
"Persian","A thief is a king till he's caught."
"Persian","A thief knows a thief as a wolf knows a wolf."
"Persian","Be a lion at home and a fox abroad."
"Persian","He gives a party with bath-water."
"Persian","Courteous men learn courtesy from the discourteous."
"Persian","Go further and fare worse."
"Persian","Do little things now; so shall big things come to thee by and by asking to be done."
"Persian","Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?"
"Persian","Do well the little things now; so shall great things come to thee by and by asking to be done."
"Persian","Epigrams succeed where epics fail."
"Persian","Every man goes down to his death bearing in his hands only that which he has given away."
"Persian","Go and wake up your luck."
"Persian","Thinking is the essence of wisdom."
"Persian","By a sweet tongue and kindness, you can drag an elephant with a hair."
"Persian","You can't pick up two melons with one hand."
"Persian","You can't take blood from a stone."
"Persian","You can't squeeze blood from a rock."
"Persian","You can't put new wine in old bottles."
"Persian","You can't put an old head on young shoulders."
"Persian","You can't push on a rope."
"Persian","The loveliest of faces are to be seen by moonlight, when one sees half with the eye and half with the fancy."
"Persian","You can't please everyone."
"Persian","Who does not beat his own child will later beat his own breast."
"Persian","When the cat and mouse agree, the grocer is ruined."
"Persian","Whatever you sow, you reap."
"Persian","Whatever is in the heart will come up to the tongue."
"Persian","What is brought by the wind will be carried away by the wind."
"Persian","Walls have mice and mice have ears."
"Persian","Luck is infatuated with the efficient."
"Persian","Use your enemy's hand to catch a snake."
"Persian","You can't polish a turd."
"Peruvian","Youth is intoxication without wine; old age, wine without intoxication."
"Peruvian","Lawyer for the rich, scourge of the poor."
"Peruvian","When the road is long, even slippers feel tight."
"Peruvian","The child weeps for it's good and the old man for his ill."
"Peruvian","Only he who carries it knows how much the cross weighs."
"Peruvian","From the tree of silence hands the fruit of tranquility."
"Peruvian","Love looks through spectacles that make copper look like gold, poverty like riches, and tears like pearls."
"Peruvian","Gold, when beaten, shines."
"Peruvian","Fortune and olives are alike: sometimes a man has an abundance and other times not any."
"Peruvian","Favor your own first, then others."
"Peruvian","Envy for a friend is like the taste of a sour pumpkin."
"Peruvian","It is better to prevent than to cure."
"Peruvian","If i listen i have the advantage, if i speak others have it."
"Peul","The heart is not a knee, it does not bend."
"Peul","When a mother has twins she must sleep on her back."
"Phil watson","Gentlemen, i have nothing to say. any questions?"
"Philippine","The pain of the little finger is felt by the whole body."
"Philippine","Don't empty the water jar until the rain falls."
"Philippine","Too much bragging drives away wisdom."
"Philippine","A long voyage begins with just one step."
"Philippine","Beauty will fade, but not goodness."
"Philippine","Don't empty the water jar until the rain falls."
"Philippine","The pain of the little finger is felt by the whole body."
"Philippine","It is advantageous to follow advice, for you will succeed in life."
"Philippine","Alertness and courage are life's shield."
"Philippine","He who boasts of his accomplishments will heap ridicule on himself."
"Philippine","He who gives alms to the poor faces heaven."
"Phillipine","If you sow arrows, you will reap sorrows."
"Phillipine","He who seeks advice seldom errs."
"Phillipine","He who gives alms to the poor faces heaven."
"Phillipine","He who boasts of his accomplishments will heap ridicule."
"Phillipine","Every kind of animal can be tamed, but not the tongue of man."
"Phillipine","Alertness and courage are life's shield."
"Phillipine","Boldness is the fruit of hope."
"Pigmei","If you chase away an ant, all the ants will come and bite you."
"Pigmei","If your corn field is far from your home, the birds will eat your corn."
"Pigmei","The owner of the dog does not obey his dog."
"Pigmy","The leopard does not sleep on a dry branch."
"Pigmy","If your cornfield is far from your house, the birds will eat your corn."
"Pima","Do not wrong or hate your neighbor for it is not he that you wrong but yourself."
"Polish","Fish, to taste good, must swim three times: in water, in butter, and in wine."
"Polish","Do not push the river, it will flow by itself."
"Polish","A good painter need not give a name to his picture, a bad one must."
"Polish","The woman cries before the wedding and the man after."
"Polish","The greater love is a mother's; then comes a dog's; then a sweetheart's."
"Polish","The good won't be spoiled in an inn, so the bad won't be mended in a church."
"Polish","Tasty fish have to swim three times: once in the water, then in butter, and finally in wine."
"Polish","That which everybody guards will soon disappear."
"Polish","That which the flesh likes, makes the soul lost."
"Polish","The apple does not fall far from the tree."
"Polish","The bell is loud because it is empty."
"Polish","The best asset is a clean conscience."
"Polish","The devil can swallow a woman but he can't digest her."
"Polish","The devil lives beneath a slattern woman's skirts."
"Polish","The devil seduced Eve in Italian. Eve mislead Adam in Bohemian. The Lord scolded them both in German. Then the angel drove them from paradise in Hungarian."
"Polish","The doctor demands his fees whether he has killed the illness or the patient."
"Polish","The doorstep of the palace is very slippery."
"Polish","The early bird gets the worm."
"Polish","You have a lifetime to work, but children are only young once."
"Polish","The farmer is a born philosopher, the aristocrat has to learn how."
"Polish","Stroke the horse until it is saddled."
"Polish","The greater love is a mother's; then comes a dog's; then a sweetheart's."
"Polish","The greatest love is a mother's, then a dog's, then a sweetheart's."
"Polish","The greatest oaks have been little acorns."
"Polish","The grunts of pigs never make it to heaven."
"Polish","The ill wind that blows is probably your mother-in-law farting."
"Polish","The Italian invents it; the Frenchman makes it; the Germans sell it; the Pole buys it and the Tartar plunders it."
"Polish","The liar will travel the world over, but chooses not to go back home."
"Polish","The locksmith is the guilty one, but the blacksmith hangs."
"Polish","The man who can not dance thinks the band is no good."
"Polish","The man who can't dance thinks the band is no good."
"Polish","The news of a good deed travels far, but the news of a bad one travels even farther."
"Polish","The news of a good deed travels far, but the news of a bad one travels even farther."
"Polish","The end justifies the means."
"Polish","One ticket, one seat."
"Polish","Love without jealousy is like a Pole with no moustache."
"Polish","Man is man's wolf."
"Polish","Man shoots, God carries the bullets."
"Polish","my home is my castle."
"Polish","Never seek the wind in the field. It is useless to try and find what is gone."
"Polish","Not all that glitters is gold."
"Polish","Not everything that's allowed is best."
"Polish","Nowadays you have to go to heaven to meet an angel."
"Polish","Nowadays you must go to heaven to meet an angel."
"Polish","Of the dead, nothing but good."
"Polish","Old truths, old laws, old friends, old books, and old wine are best."
"Polish","On a thief, the hat's on fire."
"Polish","One ducat before the trial is worth three afterwards."
"Polish","Talk of the devil - and the devil appears."
"Polish","Seek and ye shall find."
"Polish","The road to hell is paved with good intentions."
"Polish","Strike while the iron is hot."
"Polish","Still waters erode the shore or Still waters run deep."
"Polish","Still waters are the deepest; Still waters run deep."
"Polish","Speak well of the dead or not at all."
"Polish","One hand washes the other."
"Polish","Self-help is the best help."
"Polish","One may teach another to speak, but none can teach another to hold his peace."
"Polish","Say only good things about the dead."
"Polish","Running away makes you guilty."
"Polish","Rome wasn't built in a day."
"Polish","Pray once if you are going to fight, pray twice if you are going to sail, and pray thrice if you are going to get married."
"Polish","Pray once if you are going to fight, pray twice if you are going to sail, and pray thrice if you are going to get married."
"Polish","Talk of a wolf and the wolf appears."
"Polish","Shavings fly where wood is being chopped."
"Polish","Where two are fighting, a third one wins."
"Polish","The real unlucky one will sprain his thumb when he blows his nose."
"Polish","When a woman knows no more how to answer, she must be dried up."
"Polish","When February comes, hobnail your shoes."
"Polish","When I had money everyone called me brother."
"Polish","When in Rome, do as the Romans do."
"Polish","When the cat's away the mice will play."
"Polish","When the master has a cold the servants sneeze."
"Polish","When toads wrestle, the flies dance."
"Polish","When you are amongst the crows, caw like them."
"Polish","Where devil cannot go, he will send a woman."
"Polish","Where six cooks are, there is nothing to eat."
"Polish","Where the body wants to rest, there the legs must carry it."
"Polish","When a girl is born it is like having six thieves invade the house."
"Polish","Where there is love, there is happiness."
"Polish","What reaches the mother's heart will only reach the father's knees."
"Polish","Wherever you go, you can't get rid of yourself."
"Polish","Who wakes up early, Lord God provides him."
"Polish","With a bottle and a girl one does not count the hours."
"Polish","With gold in your pocket you are wise, you are handsome, and you dance well too."
"Polish","With unity there is strength."
"Polish","Without salt the feast is spoiled."
"Polish","Without work there is no dinner."
"Polish","Without work there won't be any bread in your mouth."
"Polish","Words must be weighed, not counted."
"Polish","You can wait till the cows come home."
"Polish","You can't heal stubbornness."
"Polish","You can't teach an old dog new tricks."
"Polish","Too many cooks spoil the broth."
"Polish","Where there is butter there are flies."
"Polish","You will see something as surely as a pig will see Heaven."
"Polish","The spirit is willing but the flesh is weak."
"Polish","The woman cries before the wedding and the man after."
"Polish","The world is a big place but there is so little room in it."
"Polish","The worst devil is the one who prays."
"Polish","There are a thousand paths to every wrong."
"Polish","There are a thousand roads to every wrong."
"Polish","There is no place like home."
"Polish","There will be no bread from that flour."
"Polish","There will be no cream from that spoiled milk."
"Polish","Time has no respect for beauty."
"Polish","Time is money."
"Polish","To believe in certainty, we must begin by doubting."
"Polish","When a man hurries, the devil smiles."
"Polish","Tommy, please, stay at your own place."
"Polish","The rich man gets his ice in the summer and the poor man gets his in the winter."
"Polish","Truth can take you everywhere... including jail."
"Polish","Love is like the moon: now full, now dark."
"Polish","Truth will take you everywhere -- even to jail."
"Polish","Two heads are better than one or When two,not one."
"Polish","Under capitalism man exploits man; under socialism the reverse is true."
"Polish","Watch the faces of those who bow low."
"Polish","Water teaches us to weep, wine teaches us to sing."
"Polish","What a young absorbs, the old loses."
"Polish","What can't be cured, must be endured."
"Polish","What I believe in is all that is mine."
"Polish","What Jimmy did to God, God does to Jimmy."
"Polish","What Johny wont learn, John wont know."
"Polish","What little Johnny has not learned, big John will not know."
"Polish","To believe with certainty, we must begin by doubting."
"Polish","Conscience is the voice of the soul."
"Polish","All that glitters is not gold."
"Polish","All times are good when old."
"Polish","All's well that ends well."
"Polish","An iron peace is better than a golden war."
"Polish","Beautifully decorated plate won't feed anyone."
"Polish","Beauty does not season soup."
"Polish","Being ignorant of law is no excuse."
"Polish","Better is one lady than 4 widows."
"Polish","Better late than never."
"Polish","Better no doctor at all than three."
"Polish","Better to be paying the baker than the chemist."
"Polish","Both the cross and the gallows are made of wood."
"Polish","Even a clock that does not work is right twice a day."
"Polish","Caught between a rock and a hard place."
"Polish","A whistling priest has a demon in his belly."
"Polish","Cracow wasn't built at once."
"Polish","Did hogs feed here or did Lithuanians have a feast here?"
"Polish","Do not push the river, it will flow by itself."
"Polish","Do not reprimand the alien, do not praise your own."
"Polish","Don't count your chickens before they hatch."
"Polish","Don't divide the fur on the bear."
"Polish","Don't praise the day before sunset."
"Polish","Don't talk about others, they won't talk about you."
"Polish","Don't talk with your mouth full."
"Polish","Drop after drop, there will be an ocean."
"Polish","Eagles fly alone, but sheep flock together."
"Polish","East or West home is best."
"Polish","Eat in Poland, drink in Hungary, sleep in Germany, and make love in Italy."
"Polish","Capitalism is the exploitation of man by man."
"Polish","A good appetite needs no sauce."
"Polish","Love enters a man through his eyes, woman through her ears."
"Polish","Truth will not make you fat but you won't choke on a lie."
"Polish","Love one another said Christ, but he didn't mention anything about preferences."
"Polish","A bachelor and a dog can do anything."
"Polish","A bad workman always blames his tools."
"Polish","A beggar talked to a picture, but picture answered nothing."
"Polish","A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush."
"Polish","A bitter centipede if eaten in a pleasing berry pie will taste sweet."
"Polish","A bush does note grow berries in winter."
"Polish","A crow won't bite a crow."
"Polish","A dead man's will is the mirror of his life."
"Polish","A doctor will take care of the rich man; the poor man is cured with work."
"Polish","A fault confessed is half redressed."
"Polish","All roads lead to Rome."
"Polish","A guest sticks a nail in the wall even if he stays but one night."
"Polish","A poor dancer will be disturbed even by the hem of her skirt."
"Polish","A sparrow in your hand is better than a pigeon on the roof."
"Polish","A sore finger and a headache are standard excuses for not going to school."
"Polish","A pretty person looks pretty in every clothing."
"Polish","A person who is always nice is not always nice."
"Polish","A fool stands always in the rain."
"Polish","A jug carries water until its handle breaks off."
"Polish","A friend to all is a friend to none."
"Polish","A guest sees more in an hour than the host sees in a year."
"Polish","A guest hammers a nail in the wall even if he stays only one night."
"Polish","A good painter need not give a name to his picture, a bad one must."
"Polish","A good joke is a penny worth."
"Polish","A good bargain is a pick-purse."
"Polish","Add up your pennies, and buy a hen."
"Polish","A man is a wolf to another man."
"Polish","Innocence plays in the backyard of ignorance."
"Polish","Hungry bellies have no ears."
"Polish","I'm human; nothing that is human is strange to me. A good run is better than a bad fight."
"Polish","If each person would sweep before his own house, the city would soon be clean."
"Polish","If everyone swept in front of his house, the whole town would be clean."
"Polish","If it were not for the hands, the clock would be useless."
"Polish","If the farmer is poor then so is the whole country."
"Polish","If we let people see that kind of thing, there would never again be any war."
"Polish","If you are going to fight, pray once; if you are going to sail, pray twice; if you are getting married, then pray thrice."
"Polish","If you love him, don't lend him."
"Polish","In a game it's difficult to know when to stop."
"Polish","In church, in the taverns, and in coffins all men are equal."
"Polish","In every little house there is a little louse."
"Polish","Hunger will lead a fox out of the forest."
"Polish","Ink, if not used, will dry up."
"Polish","In Russia as you must, in Poland as you like."
"Polish","It is a poor parish where the priest has to ring his own bells."
"Polish","It is better to give than to lend and it costs about the same."
"Polish","It is easier to take a couple of drinks than to refuse them."
"Polish","It is easier to watch over one hundred fleas than one young girl."
"Polish","It is worse to be sick in the soul than in body."
"Polish","It was Blacksmith's guilt, but the Gypsy was hanged."
"Polish","It's easier for the horses when the woman gets off the cart."
"Polish","Joy must have sorrow."
"Polish","Keep learning because knowledge is the key to power."
"Polish","Even a clock that is not going is right twice a day."
"Polish","A noisy cow gives little milk."
"Polish","Light a candle for God and another for the devil."
"Polish","Kill two birds with one stone."
"Polish","In healthy body healthy spirit."
"Polish","Everyone is tempted to evil."
"Polish","From someone else's cart you have to get off halfway."
"Polish","Fortune's wheel is ever turning."
"Polish","Fortune is a giver and a taker."
"Polish","For a ducat brother will sell brother."
"Polish","Fish, to taste right, must swim 3 times -- in water, in butter and in wine."
"Polish","Get married and you will be happy for a week; slaughter a pig and you will be happy for a month; become a priest and you will be happy for the rest of your life."
"Polish","Fate throws fortune, but not everyone catches."
"Polish","Fortune goes like a wheel."
"Polish","How you make your bed, thus will you rest."
"Polish","Innocence itself sometimes hath need of a mask."
"Polish","Every error has its excuse."
"Polish","Even the goats will jump on a slanted tree."
"Polish","Even if a chef cooks just a fly, he would keep the breast for himself."
"Polish","Even a stopped clock is right twice a day."
"Polish","Fish, to taste good, must swim three times: in water, in butter, and in wine."
"Polish","He who climbs a ladder, must have his brains in his feet."
"Polish","He who lies once is never believed again."
"Polish","Folly lives next door to knowledge."
"Polish","God grant me a good sword and no use for it."
"Polish","He/She is gaping like a calf at the painted gate."
"Polish","He who tickles himself can laugh whenever he wants."
"Polish","He who gives quickly gives twice."
"Polish","He who laughs last, laughs longest."
"Polish","Home, sweet home."
"Polish","He is rich enough that wants nothing."
"Polish","Guest coming into house - God coming into house."
"Polish","Great things can best be said in silence."
"Polish","God promised me a fur coat, and I am already sweating."
"Polish","God pays, but not weekly wages."
"Polish","He who has none hates those that have much."
"Polish","The greatest oaks have been little acorns."
"Polish","Innocence plays in the backyard of ignorance."
"Polish","Innocence itself sometimes hath need of a mask."
"Polish","Words must be weighed, not counted."
"Polish","Wherever you go, you can't get rid of yourself."
"Polish","What little Johnny has not learned, big John will not know."
"Polish","Watch the faces of those who bow low."
"Polish","Under capitalism man exploits man; under socialism the reverse is true."
"Polish","The woman cries before the wedding and the man after."
"Polish","The greatest love is a mother's, then a dog's, then a sweetheart's."
"Polish","The greater love is a mother's; then comes a dog's; then a sweetheart's."
"Polish","The doctor demands his fees whether he has killed the illness or the patient."
"Polish","On a thief, the hat's on fire."
"Polish","Never seek the wind in the field. It is useless to try and find what is gone."
"Polish","Love enters a man through his eyes, woman through her ears."
"Polish","There will be no bread from that flour."
"Polish","God grant me a good sword and no use for it."
"Polish","Hungry bellies have no ears."
"Polish","Ink, if not used, will dry up."
"Polish","Nowadays you must go to heaven to meet an angel."
"Polish","Hunger will lead a fox out of the forest."
"Polish","Fish, to taste good, must swim three times: in water, in butter, and in wine."
"Polish","Even the goats will jump on a slanted tree."
"Polish","Even a clock that does not work is right twice a day."
"Polish","Do not push the river, it will flow by itself."
"Polish","A poor dancer will be disturbed even by the hem of her skirt."
"Polish","A noisy cow gives little milk."
"Polish","A guest sees more in an hour than the host in a year."
"Polish","A good painter need not give a name to his picture, a bad one must."
"Polish","A good bargain is a pick-purse."
"Polish","All times are good when old."
"Polish","A good appetite needs no sauce."
"Portuguese","My life and soul at your service, but not the pack-saddle."
"Portuguese","The fisherman fishes in troubled water."
"Portuguese","The dog that barks much is never good for hunting."
"Portuguese","My money, your money, let us go to the tavern."
"Portuguese","Neither handsome enough to kill nor ugly enough to frighten away."
"Portuguese","Never cut what can be untied."
"Portuguese","The fingers of the same hand are not alike."
"Portuguese","The dog that barks much, bites little."
"Portuguese","The guests will go away, and we will eat the pasty."
"Portuguese","Never mention a rope in the house of a thief."
"Portuguese","The devil is not so ugly as he is painted."
"Portuguese","The dead open the eyes of the living."
"Portuguese","The cat well knows whose beard she licks."
"Portuguese","The cat is a good friend, only she scratches."
"Portuguese","Never mention rope in the house of a man who has been hanged."
"Portuguese","The blunders of physicians are covered by the earth."
"Portuguese","The bird hunting a locust is unaware of the hawk hunting him."
"Portuguese","The envious man's face grows lean and his eye swells."
"Portuguese","The mad dog bites its master."
"Portuguese","The Frenchman sings well, when his throat is moistened."
"Portuguese","The law devised, its evasion contrived."
"Portuguese","The lazy servant takes eight steps to avoid one."
"Portuguese","Mouth of honey, heart of gall."
"Portuguese","More haste, less speed."
"Portuguese","More grows in a garden than the gardener sows there."
"Portuguese","The lame goat does not take a siesta."
"Portuguese","The loudest bark rids not a dog of his fleas."
"Portuguese","Much chatter, little wit."
"Portuguese","Money soothes more than the words of a cavalier."
"Portuguese","The malady that is more incurable is folly."
"Portuguese","Money makes a man."
"Portuguese","Money lent, an enemy made."
"Portuguese","Money is the root of all evil."
"Portuguese","Money is the measure of all things."
"Portuguese","Money wins the battle, not the long arm."
"Portuguese","The horse's best allowance is his master's eye."
"Portuguese","The fool passes for wise if he is silent."
"Portuguese","The fox knows much, but more he that catcheth him."
"Portuguese","Much straw and little corn."
"Portuguese","The gentle calf sucks all the cows."
"Portuguese","The headache is mine and the cows are ours."
"Portuguese","Much meat, much maladies."
"Portuguese","Much caution does no harm."
"Portuguese","The hen's eyes turn to where she has her eggs."
"Portuguese","My chest locked, my soul safe."
"Portuguese","Much law, but little justice."
"Portuguese","The key at the girdle keeps me good and my neighbour too."
"Portuguese","Much laughter, little wit."
"Portuguese","The king of the bees has no sting."
"Portuguese","Much cry and little wool."
"Portuguese","Much coin, much care."
"Portuguese","The hen that stays at home picks up the crumbs."
"Portuguese","Spilt salt is never well collected."
"Portuguese","No one is a good judge in his own cause."
"Portuguese","Pigs in the cold and men in drink make a great noise."
"Portuguese","Shut your mouth and you'll catch no flies."
"Portuguese","Peace with a cudgel in hand is war."
"Portuguese","Pay what you owe, you will get well of your malady."
"Portuguese","Soft water constantly striking the hard stone, wears it at last."
"Portuguese","Poverty never sped well in love."
"Portuguese","Open your purse, and I will open my mouth."
"Portuguese","Shut your door, and you will make your neighbour good."
"Portuguese","Spinner, spin softly, you disturb me; I am praying."
"Portuguese","One year's seeding makes seven years weeding."
"Portuguese","Supper is soon served up in a plentiful house."
"Portuguese","One wrong submitted to, another follows."
"Portuguese","Taking out without putting in, soon comes to the bottom."
"Portuguese","Talk of the wolf and behold his skin."
"Portuguese","Speak little and well, they will think you somebody."
"Portuguese","Prepare a nest for the hen and she will lay eggs for you."
"Portuguese","Right or wrong, our house up to the roof."
"Portuguese","Rise early, and you will observe; labour, and you will have."
"Portuguese","Rosary is hand, the devil at heart."
"Portuguese","Rather go rob with good men than pray with bad."
"Portuguese","Rather a husband with one eye than with one son."
"Portuguese","Promising is not giving, but serves to content fools."
"Portuguese","Play with an ass, and he will slap your face with his tail."
"Portuguese","Saints don't fill the belly."
"Portuguese","One wolf does not kill another."
"Portuguese","Seat yourself in your place, and they will not make you rise."
"Portuguese","Send a man of sense on the embassy, and you need not instruct him."
"Portuguese","Serve a lord, and you will know what it is to be vexed."
"Portuguese","Pray to the saint until you have passed the slough."
"Portuguese","Show me a poor man, I will show you a flatterer."
"Portuguese","Poverty parteth friends."
"Portuguese","Your windmill dwindles into a nutcrack."
"Portuguese","The belly does not accept bail."
"Portuguese","The ass that trespasses on a stranger's premises will leave them laden with wood (i.e. cudgelled)."
"Portuguese","No woman is ugly if she is well dressed."
"Portuguese","The ass well knows in whose house he brays."
"Portuguese","No one is poor but he who thinks himself so."
"Portuguese","No one is content with his lot."
"Portuguese","The ass's son brays one hour daily."
"Portuguese","Tell her she is handsome, and you will turn her brain."
"Portuguese","No one is always right."
"Portuguese","No word is ill spoken, that is not ill taken."
"Portuguese","Rather lose the wool than the sheep."
"Portuguese","The belly warm, the foot at rest."
"Portuguese","Saints appear to fools."
"Portuguese","The bigger the river the bigger the fish."
"Portuguese","No one has seen to-morrow."
"Portuguese","The bigger they are, the harder they fall."
"Portuguese","The beast that goes well never wants a rider to try its paces."
"Portuguese","Of soup and love, the first is the best."
"Portuguese","Never say, of this water I will not drink, of this bread I will not eat."
"Portuguese","One grain does not full the granary, but it helps its companion."
"Portuguese","Tell your friends a lie; if he keeps it secret tell him the truth."
"Portuguese","The accomplice is as bad as the thief."
"Portuguese","One bird in the hand is worth two flying."
"Portuguese","Of two cowards, the one who attacks conquers the other."
"Portuguese","The ass that is hungry eats thistles."
"Portuguese","Of the good man a good pledge, and of the bad neither pledge nor surety."
"Portuguese","The ass of many owners is eaten by wolves."
"Portuguese","Of oil, wine, and friends, the oldest."
"Portuguese","The ass does not know the value of his tail till he has lost it."
"Portuguese","Of evils, choose the least."
"Portuguese","Not all that is true is to be spoken."
"Portuguese","No. 1 is the first house in the row."
"Portuguese","The ass embraced the thistle, and they found themselves relations."
"Portuguese","Tell me with whom thou goest, and I'll tell thee what thou doest."
"Portuguese","The ass dead, the corn at his tail."
"Portuguese","Third time lucky."
"Portuguese","What water gives, water takes away."
"Portuguese","What's everybody's work is nobody's work."
"Portuguese","When bulls fight, woe to the frogs."
"Portuguese","Three brothers, three fortresses."
"Portuguese","Threatened folks eat bread."
"Portuguese","Threads do not break for being fine, but for being gouty and ill-spun."
"Portuguese","When thieves fall out, their knaveries come to light."
"Portuguese","Though your mastiff be gentle, do not bite his lip."
"Portuguese","Though we may pluck flowers by the way we may not sleep among flowers."
"Portuguese","Where shall the ox go but he must labour, since he knows how?"
"Portuguese","Though we are negroes, we are men, and have souls."
"Portuguese","Though the mastiff be gentle, yet bite him not by the lip."
"Portuguese","Though the heron flied high the falcon kills it."
"Portuguese","Where you tell your secret you surrender your freedom."
"Portuguese","Where there is no fire, no smoke rises."
"Portuguese","The tongue goes to the aching tooth."
"Portuguese","There's no compassion like the penny."
"Portuguese","There's no handsome woman on the wedding day, except the bride."
"Portuguese","Where there's no fire there's no smoke."
"Portuguese","Where there is no honour there is no dishonour."
"Portuguese","Third time pays for all."
"Portuguese","There's no living without friends."
"Portuguese","Where shall the ox go, and not have to plough?"
"Portuguese","Where there is little bread, cut first."
"Portuguese","Where there is life there is hope."
"Portuguese","Think of many things, do one."
"Portuguese","Thinking is not knowing."
"Portuguese","Thinking of where you are going, you forget whence you came."
"Portuguese","Time and the hour are not to be tied with a rope."
"Portuguese","Money is not gained by losing time."
"Portuguese","Under fair words beware of fraud."
"Portuguese","Three or four daily will bring you to the bottom of the sack."
"Portuguese","To the lean pig a fat acorn."
"Portuguese","Visits always give pleasure, if not the arrival, the departure."
"Portuguese","Too much wax burns the church."
"Portuguese","Vile let him be who deems himself vile."
"Portuguese","To the bold man Fortune holds out her hand."
"Portuguese","Under the sackcloth there is something else."
"Portuguese","To separate the men from the boys."
"Portuguese","Under a shabby cloak may be a smart drinker."
"Portuguese","Trust not a horse's heels."
"Portuguese","Trust not a new friend or an old enemy."
"Portuguese","Trust not tow with firebrands, not a woman with men."
"Portuguese","Two eyes see more than one."
"Portuguese","Truth and oil come to the surface."
"Portuguese","Trust not a dog that limps."
"Portuguese","We have not saddled and yet we are riding."
"Portuguese","There's no catching trouts with dry breeches."
"Portuguese","Times passes like the wind."
"Portuguese","Times tries a'."
"Portuguese","What is marriage, mother? Daughter, it is spinning, bearing children, and weeping."
"Portuguese","What is another's always sighs for its master."
"Portuguese","War is sweet to him who does not go to it."
"Portuguese","To be slow in giving ant to refuse, are alike."
"Portuguese","What was hard to bear is sweet to remember."
"Portuguese","To change one's habits smacks of death."
"Portuguese","To give is honour, to beg is dishonour."
"Portuguese","To love and be wise is incompatible."
"Portuguese","To promise much means giving little."
"Portuguese","Water washes everything."
"Portuguese","To sell honey to one who keeps hives."
"Portuguese","To a hasty question a leisurely answer."
"Portuguese","You have lent and not recovered; and if recovered, not so much; and if so much, not such; and if such, a mortal enemy."
"Portuguese","Would you have potatoes grow by the pot-side?"
"Portuguese","The sooner begun, the sooner done."
"Portuguese","Would you know your daughter? See her in company."
"Portuguese","The son-in-law's sack is never full."
"Portuguese","The savage ox grows tame on strange ground."
"Portuguese","The ripest fruit will not fall into your mouth."
"Portuguese","You can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear."
"Portuguese","The righteous pays for the sinner."
"Portuguese","The rat which has but one hole is soon caught."
"Portuguese","The rat that knows but one hole is soon caught."
"Portuguese","The rat does not leave the cat's house with a bellyful."
"Portuguese","The pot that boils too much loses its flavour."
"Portuguese","The poor man eats at double cost."
"Portuguese","Where there's no might there's no right."
"Portuguese","The nest made, the bird dead."
"Portuguese","The man of your own trade is your enemy."
"Portuguese","Your wife and sheep early at home."
"Portuguese","The mare's kicks are caresses to the colt."
"Portuguese","You will not see many with green eyes."
"Portuguese","You need not find a shelter for an old ox."
"Portuguese","The ox that tossed me threw me into a good place."
"Portuguese","The mouth that says ""Yes,"" can say ""No."""
"Portuguese","You can't make horn of a pig's tail."
"Portuguese","The old saints are forgotten in the new."
"Portuguese","You may keep yourself safe from fire, but not from a bad man."
"Portuguese","The one-eyes is a king in the land of the blind."
"Portuguese","You have many strings to your bow."
"Portuguese","The only good Indian is a dead Indian."
"Portuguese","The thief becomes the gallows well."
"Portuguese","The master orders the man, the man orders the cat, and the cat orders her tail."
"Portuguese","Who holds his peace and gathers stones, will find a time to throw them."
"Portuguese","The sooty oven mocks the black chimney."
"Portuguese","Wind and fortune are not lasting."
"Portuguese","Win a bet of your friend, and drink it on the spot."
"Portuguese","There is never wanting a dog to bark at you."
"Portuguese","Will he nill he, the ass must go the fair."
"Portuguese","Woman, wind, and luck soon change."
"Portuguese","Who will not when he can, can't when he will."
"Portuguese","There die as many lambs as wethers."
"Portuguese","Who faints not, achieves."
"Portuguese","Who eats his fowl alone, must saddle his horse alone."
"Portuguese","There is no pleasure that does not pall, the more so if it costs nothing."
"Portuguese","There is plenty of corn in Castile, but he who has none, starves."
"Portuguese","There is reason in the roasting of eggs."
"Portuguese","Where you were a page, be not an esquire."
"Portuguese","There is no day without its night."
"Portuguese","The wine-skin has its reasons for smelling of pitch."
"Portuguese","The man of sense does not hang up his knowledge."
"Portuguese","Would you have me serve you, good king, give me the means of living."
"Portuguese","Work expands so as to fill the time available."
"Portuguese","The thief proceeds from a needle to gold, and from gold to the gallows."
"Portuguese","Work done expects money."
"Portuguese","Wipe your sore eye with your elbow."
"Portuguese","The treason approved, the traitor abhorred."
"Portuguese","The tailor ill-dressed, the shoemaker ill-shod."
"Portuguese","The wolf is well pleased with the kick of a sheep."
"Portuguese","Women are supernumerary when present, and missed when absent."
"Portuguese","The worst pig eats the best acorn."
"Portuguese","The worth of a thing is what it will bring."
"Portuguese","There are ills that happen for good."
"Portuguese","Women and glass are always in danger."
"Portuguese","The tired mare goes willingly to grass."
"Portuguese","Go not with every hunger to the cupboard, nor with every thirst to the pitcher."
"Portuguese","God grant me to dispute with those who understand me."
"Portuguese","Do not rear a bird of a bad breed."
"Portuguese","Don't be a baker if your head is made of butter."
"Portuguese","God gives clothes according to the cold."
"Portuguese","The dog wags his tail, not for you, but for your bread."
"Portuguese","Don't leave the high road for a short cut."
"Portuguese","Don't let the bastards grind you down."
"Portuguese","Go to your rich friend's house when invited; to your poor friend's without invitation."
"Portuguese","Go to bed without supper, you will rise without debt."
"Portuguese","He is no friend that eats his own by himself, and mine with me."
"Portuguese","Go to bed late, rise early, you will see your own harm and that of others."
"Portuguese","God heals, and the doctor gets the money."
"Portuguese","Go not with every ailment to the doctor, nor with every plaint to lawyer."
"Portuguese","Don't let your sorrow come higher than your knees."
"Portuguese","Give orders, and do no more, and nothing will be done."
"Portuguese","Don't make yourself poor to one who won't make you rich."
"Portuguese","Give orders, and do it yourself, and you will be rid of anxiety."
"Portuguese","Give me money, not advice."
"Portuguese","Don't pull hard enough to break the rope."
"Portuguese","Give a man rope enough and he will hang himself."
"Portuguese","Give a loaf, and beg a shive."
"Portuguese","Don't put all you eggs in one basket."
"Portuguese","Don't let the cat out of the bag."
"Portuguese","Good table, bad will."
"Portuguese","He is an old saint, any may leave it in the hands of God."
"Portuguese","He has nothing, for whom nothing is enough."
"Portuguese","He has nothing who is not content with what he has."
"Portuguese","He has a head, and so has a pin."
"Portuguese","He doubts nothing who knows nothing."
"Portuguese","He buys very dear who begs."
"Portuguese","Hard upon hard does not make a good wall."
"Portuguese","Every one to his liking."
"Portuguese","Good wind needs no bush."
"Portuguese","Good things come in small packages."
"Portuguese","God has given nuts to one who has no teeth."
"Portuguese","Good take heed doth surely speed."
"Portuguese","Beware of a man that does not talk and a dog that does not bark."
"Portuguese","Good men are scarce."
"Portuguese","Good manners and plenty of money will make my son a gentlemen."
"Portuguese","Good management is better than good income."
"Portuguese","Good is the delay which makes sure."
"Portuguese","Good habits result from resisting temptation."
"Portuguese","Good fruit never comes from a bad tree."
"Portuguese","Good and quickly seldom meet."
"Portuguese","Good and bad make up a city."
"Portuguese","Michael, Michael, you have no bees, and yet you sell honey!"
"Portuguese","Give a hint to the man of sense, and consider the thing done."
"Portuguese","Good talk saves the food."
"Portuguese","Feet accustomed to go cannot be still."
"Portuguese","Eat of your own, and call yourself mine (i.e. Be my servant and find yourself)."
"Portuguese","Every land to its own custom, every wheel its own spindle."
"Portuguese","For a bad tongue scissors."
"Portuguese","Foot firm till death."
"Portuguese","Fools sometimes give wise men counsel."
"Portuguese","Follow the road and you will reach an inn."
"Portuguese","Every man to his trade."
"Portuguese","Every one is a king in his own house."
"Portuguese","Every one is wise for his own profit."
"Portuguese","Feign death and the bull will leave you."
"Portuguese","Every fly has its shadow."
"Portuguese","Every one sings as he has the gift, and marries as he has the luck."
"Portuguese","For lack of men they made my father a justice."
"Portuguese","Favour oft avails more than justice or reason."
"Portuguese","Fair and softly goes far in a day."
"Portuguese","A rich widow weeps with one eye and signals with the other."
"Portuguese","Faintheart is always in danger."
"Portuguese","Everything has its time."
"Portuguese","Everybody's friend or nobody's friend, is all one."
"Portuguese","Every pig has it Martinmas."
"Portuguese","Every one speaks of the feast as he finds it."
"Portuguese","Every one to his equal."
"Portuguese","Every peddler praises his own needles."
"Portuguese","Every one reaps as he sows."
"Portuguese","What is bought is cheaper than a gift."
"Portuguese","He avoided the fly and swallowed the spider."
"Portuguese","Eat the wind and swallow bitterness."
"Portuguese","Give a grateful man more than he asks."
"Portuguese","Gifts from enemies are dangerous."
"Portuguese","Gifts break rocks."
"Portuguese","Gambling sire, gambling son."
"Portuguese","Gain has a pleasant odour, come whence it will."
"Portuguese","From the sweetest wine, the tartest vinegar."
"Portuguese","From the sublime to the ridiculous is only one step."
"Portuguese","Eat to live, not live to eat."
"Portuguese","For a voracious beast pebbles in his feed."
"Portuguese","Eat with him, and beware of him."
"Portuguese","Give a little, take a little."
"Portuguese","Do ill, and expect the like."
"Portuguese","Every ant has its ire."
"Portuguese","From great rivers come great fish."
"Portuguese","From a closed door the devil turns away."
"Portuguese","Every cock is valiant on his own dunghill."
"Portuguese","Friends are known in adversity."
"Portuguese","Friends are flowers in the garden of life."
"Portuguese","Friends and mules fail us at hard passes."
"Portuguese","Every cock will crow upon his own dunghill."
"Portuguese","For poor people small coin."
"Portuguese","From the straws in the air we judge of the wind."
"Portuguese","It is well to know how to be silent till it is time to speak."
"Portuguese","If you would be healthy, be sage betimes."
"Portuguese","Layovers for meddlers."
"Portuguese","Lay your hand on your bosom and you will not speak ill of another."
"Portuguese","Laws go where money pleases."
"Portuguese","Laws go where dollars please."
"Portuguese","Kings have long arms."
"Portuguese","King's entreaties are commands."
"Portuguese","Keep no more cats that will catch mice."
"Portuguese","Keep no more cats than will catch mice."
"Portuguese","Keep good company and you shall be of the number."
"Portuguese","Jack will never make a gentleman."
"Portuguese","Let every man look to the bread upon which he must depend."
"Portuguese","Jack is as good as his master."
"Portuguese","Let every man mind his own business, and leave others to theirs."
"Portuguese","It is the nature of the greyhound to carry a long tail."
"Portuguese","It is nothing, they are only killing my husband."
"Portuguese","It is bad to have a servant, but worse to have a master."
"Portuguese","It fares ill with the house when the distaff commands the sword."
"Portuguese","It dawns none the sooner for all one's early rising."
"Portuguese","It befits the king to be liberal, for he is sure of never falling into poverty."
"Portuguese","Iron that is not used soon rusts."
"Portuguese","In default of bread, meal cakes are good."
"Portuguese","Ill fares the young bird in the urchin's hand."
"Portuguese","Good words and bad acts deceive both wise and wimple."
"Portuguese","If you would grow poor without perceiving it, employ workmen and go to sleep."
"Portuguese","He is no great heir that inherits not his ancestor's virtues."
"Portuguese","Jack of all trades and master of none."
"Portuguese","Lovers' quarrels are love redoubled."
"Portuguese","Meddle not in what you don't understand."
"Portuguese","Marry, marry, sounds well but tastes ill."
"Portuguese","Marry, marry, and what about the housekeeping."
"Portuguese","Marry me forthwith, mother, for my face is growing wrinkled."
"Portuguese","Many little makes a mickle."
"Portuguese","Many kiss the hand they would gladly see cut off."
"Portuguese","Make your son you heir and not your steward."
"Portuguese","Make the night night, and the day day, and you will live pleasantly."
"Portuguese","Make good flour and you need no trumpet."
"Portuguese","Make a silver bridge for a flying enemy."
"Portuguese","Mad love, I for you and you for another."
"Portuguese","Lean meat from a fat pig."
"Portuguese","Lying pays no tax."
"Portuguese","If you would be in good repute, let not the sun find you in bed."
"Portuguese","Love knows no law."
"Portuguese","Love has no law."
"Portuguese","Live to live and you will learn to live."
"Portuguese","Little chips kindle fire, and big logs sustain it."
"Portuguese","Like king, like law; like law, like people."
"Portuguese","Like father, like son."
"Portuguese","Let the giver be silent and the receiver speak."
"Portuguese","Let the dog bark at me, so he don't bite me."
"Portuguese","Let not the bottom of your purse or of your mind be seen."
"Portuguese","Let not him that has a mouth ask another to blow."
"Portuguese","Let him eat the tough morsel who eat the tender."
"Portuguese","Let every one be content with what God has given him."
"Portuguese","Mad as a wet hen."
"Portuguese","Honour a good man that he may honour you, and a bad man that he may not dishonour you."
"Portuguese","He who has a good next, finds good friends."
"Portuguese","He that does ill never wants for excuses."
"Portuguese","He that will, does more that he that can."
"Portuguese","Honour and profit will not keep in one sack."
"Portuguese","He that would be old long must begin betimes."
"Portuguese","If you would be happy for a week take a wife; if you would be happy for a month kill a pig; but if you would be happy all your life plant a garden."
"Portuguese","Ill befal the belly that forgets eaten bread."
"Portuguese","He that would keep his eye sound must tie up his hand."
"Portuguese","He threatens many who affronts one."
"Portuguese","He should not complain of being cheated who buys the cloth by the sample."
"Portuguese","He who has a glass roof must not throw stones at his neighbour's."
"Portuguese","He never was a friend who ceased to be so for a slight cause."
"Portuguese","Honey is not for the ass's mouth."
"Portuguese","Hedgehogs are not to be killed with the fist."
"Portuguese","He who would catch fish, must not mind getting wet."
"Portuguese","He who would catch fish must not mind wetting himself."
"Portuguese","He who makes one basket can make a hundred."
"Portuguese","He who make more of you than he is wont, either means to cheat you or wants you."
"Portuguese","He who knows little soon blabs it."
"Portuguese","He who is well prepared has won the battle."
"Portuguese","He who has four and spends five, has no need of a purse."
"Portuguese","He threatens who is afraid."
"Portuguese","I renounce the golden basin in which I have to spit blood."
"Portuguese","If you would be a good judge, hear what every one says."
"Portuguese","If you want to be served, serve yourself."
"Portuguese","If you want clear water, draw it from the spring."
"Portuguese","If you laugh to-day, you will cry to-morrow."
"Portuguese","If you know what a dollar is worth, try to borrow it."
"Portuguese","If you have a friend who is a physician, send him to your enemy's house."
"Portuguese","If a rich man ate a snake, they would say it was because of his wisdom."
"Portuguese","If a poor man gives to you, he expects more in return."
"Portuguese","I want more for my teeth than for my relations."
"Portuguese","How did you rear so many children? By being fondest of the little ones."
"Portuguese","I saw a man, who saw another man, who saw the sea."
"Portuguese","I renounce the friend who eats what is mine with me, and what is his own by himself."
"Portuguese","I meant to cross myself and put out one of my eyes."
"Portuguese","I kiss thee hide, because thou art to be a wine-bag."
"Portuguese","I have nothing for dinner, sit down to table."
"Portuguese","I hate fetters though they be of gold."
"Portuguese","Hunger and cold surrender a man to his enemy."
"Portuguese","He keeps his road well enough who gets rid of bad company."
"Portuguese","I see by my daughter's face when the devil lays hold of my son-in-law."
"Portuguese","Of soup and love, the first is the best."
"Portuguese","Of oil, wine, and friends, the oldest."
"Portuguese","Of the good man a good pledge, and of the bad neither pledge nor surety."
"Portuguese","Of evils, choose the least."
"Portuguese","Of doctor and crazy, we all have a little."
"Portuguese","Of two cowards, the one who attacks conquers the other."
"Portuguese","Of a given horse, one shouldn't check the teeth."
"Portuguese","Nothing falls into the mouth of a sleeping fox."
"Portuguese","No. 1 is the first house in the row."
"Portuguese","Not only of bread lives a man."
"Portuguese","Not much is achieved where everyone gives the orders."
"Portuguese","Not all that is true is to be spoken."
"Portuguese","Old donkeys do not learn languages."
"Portuguese","One wolf does not kill another."
"Portuguese","Not much can be done when everyone is giving orders."
"Portuguese","Not everything that shines is gold."
"Portuguese","Not only of bread will the man live."
"Portuguese","One hand washes the other and both of them wash the face."
"Portuguese","Open your purse, and I will open my mouth."
"Portuguese","Only people who work make mistakes."
"Portuguese","Much coin, much care."
"Portuguese","No woman is ugly if she is well dressed."
"Portuguese","One year's seeding makes seven years weeding."
"Portuguese","One wrong submitted to, another follows."
"Portuguese","One misfortune brings on another."
"Portuguese","One knows where the shoes hurt."
"Portuguese","Old horse doesn't learn how to walk."
"Portuguese","One grain does not full the granary, but it helps its companion."
"Portuguese","One good word puts out the flames better than a bucket of water."
"Portuguese","One fool makes a hundred."
"Portuguese","One doesn't examine the teeth of a gift horse."
"Portuguese","One bird in the hand is worth two flying."
"Portuguese","On a fool's beard all learn to shave."
"Portuguese","Old monkeys don't put their hand in jars."
"Portuguese","One only gives what one has."
"Portuguese","Much cry and little wool."
"Portuguese","My gossips don't like me because I tell them truths."
"Portuguese","My chest locked, my soul safe."
"Portuguese","Much straw and little corn."
"Portuguese","Much never cost little."
"Portuguese","Much meat, much maladies."
"Portuguese","Much law, but little justice."
"Portuguese","Much laugher, short wisdom."
"Portuguese","Much laughter, little brains."
"Portuguese","Necessity makes the frog jump."
"Portuguese","Much chatter, little wit."
"Portuguese","Much caution does no harm."
"Portuguese","Mouth of honey, heart of gall."
"Portuguese","Mouth from honey, heart of gall."
"Portuguese","More haste, less speed."
"Portuguese","Opportunity makes the thief."
"Portuguese","Speak not of my debts unless you mean to pay them."
"Portuguese","Much laughter, little wit."
"Portuguese","Never say, of this water I will not drink, of this bread I will not eat."
"Portuguese","No one is always right."
"Portuguese","No one is a prophet in his own land."
"Portuguese","No one is a good judge of his own case."
"Portuguese","No one is a good judge in his own cause."
"Portuguese","No one has seen to-morrow."
"Portuguese","No flies get into a shut mouth."
"Portuguese","No better moonshine than in august."
"Portuguese","My life and soul at your service, but not the pack-saddle."
"Portuguese","Never say: 'of this water I will never drink.'"
"Portuguese","My money, your money, let us go to the tavern."
"Portuguese","Never say 'from this water I shall not drink'."
"Portuguese","Never poke a jaguar with a short stick."
"Portuguese","Never mention rope in the house of a man who has been hanged."
"Portuguese","Never cut what can be untied."
"Portuguese","Neither trust or contend, nor lay wagers or lend, and you'll have peace to your end."
"Portuguese","Neither handsome enough to kill nor ugly enough to frighten away."
"Portuguese","No one is content with his lot."
"Portuguese","Never tell all that you know, or do all that you can, or believe all that you hear."
"Portuguese","Shut your door, and you will make your neighbour good."
"Portuguese","Speak little and well, they will think you somebody."
"Portuguese","Slowly one goes far."
"Portuguese","Slow help is no help."
"Portuguese","Slow but sure."
"Portuguese","Sloth is the mother of poverty."
"Portuguese","Sloth is the key to poverty."
"Portuguese","Soft water constantly striking the hard stone, wears it at last."
"Portuguese","Shut your mouth and you'll catch no flies."
"Portuguese","Soft water on hard rock, beats so much that it perforates it."
"Portuguese","Show me a poor man, I will show you a flatterer."
"Portuguese","Short reckonings make long friends."
"Portuguese","She stoops to conquer."
"Portuguese","She is well married who has neither mother-in-law nor sister-in-law."
"Portuguese","Serve a lord, and you will know what it is to be vexed."
"Portuguese","Send a man of sense on the embassy, and you need not instruct him."
"Portuguese","Seat yourself in your place, and they will not make you rise."
"Portuguese","Silence is golden."
"Portuguese","Stolen house, locks on the door."
"Portuguese","Tell her she is handsome, and you will turn her brain."
"Portuguese","Talk of the wolf and behold his skin."
"Portuguese","Taking out without putting in, soon comes to the bottom."
"Portuguese","Sweet are the tears that are dried by your loved one."
"Portuguese","Supper is soon served up in a plentiful house."
"Portuguese","Stumbling is not falling."
"Portuguese","Small man, sly or dancer."
"Portuguese","Strength comes from Union."
"Portuguese","Running by one's will never gets tired."
"Portuguese","Spinner, spin softly, you disturb me; I am praying."
"Portuguese","Spilt salt is never well collected."
"Portuguese","Lean meat from a fat pig."
"Portuguese","Speak not ill of the year until it is past."
"Portuguese","More grows in a garden than the gardener sows there."
"Portuguese","Some bad things come for good."
"Portuguese","Soft words and hard arguments."
"Portuguese","Strike while the iron is hot."
"Portuguese","Passed waters don?t move watermills."
"Portuguese","Poverty is not vile."
"Portuguese","Play with an ass, and he will slap your face with his tail."
"Portuguese","Pigs in the cold and men in drink make a great noise."
"Portuguese","Perseverance kills the game."
"Portuguese","Pepper in someone else's eyes is a salve."
"Portuguese","Peace with a cudgel in hand is war."
"Portuguese","Saints don't fill the belly."
"Portuguese","Pay what you owe, you will get well of your malady."
"Portuguese","Praise in own mouth is insult."
"Portuguese","Passed waters can't move the mills."
"Portuguese","Party over, musicians by foot."
"Portuguese","Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee."
"Portuguese","Out of the fulness of the heart the mouth speaketh."
"Portuguese","Out of the fullness of the heart the mouth speaks."
"Portuguese","Out of sight out of mind."
"Portuguese","Our union makes us stronger."
"Portuguese","Peace with a club in hand is war."
"Portuguese","Rather a husband with one eye than with one son."
"Portuguese","Other times, other counsels."
"Portuguese","Rosary is hand, the devil at heart."
"Portuguese","Rome and Pavia weren't built in a day."
"Portuguese","Rise early, and you will observe; labour, and you will have."
"Portuguese","Right or wrong, our house up to the roof."
"Portuguese","Revenge is a dish served cold."
"Portuguese","Rather lose the wool than the sheep."
"Portuguese","Poverty never sped well in love."
"Portuguese","Rather alone than in bad company."
"Portuguese","Poverty parteth friends."
"Portuguese","Raised children, doubled work."
"Portuguese","Promising is not giving, but serves to content fools."
"Portuguese","Priests, cousins and pigeons. The first two are not good to marry. The Last two, serve only to filth the house."
"Portuguese","Pretend to be dead and the bull will leave you alone."
"Portuguese","Prepare a nest for the hen and she will lay eggs for you."
"Portuguese","Pray to the saint until you have passed the slough."
"Portuguese","Saints appear to fools."
"Portuguese","Rather go rob with good men than pray with bad."
"Portuguese","In the long run, the greyhound kills the hare."
"Portuguese","It is approved alchemy to have an income and spend nothing."
"Portuguese","It is an ill bird that fouls its own nest."
"Portuguese","It fares ill with the house when the distaff commands the sword."
"Portuguese","It dawns none the sooner for all one's early rising."
"Portuguese","It befits the king to be liberal, for he is sure of never falling into poverty."
"Portuguese","Iron that is not used soon rusts."
"Portuguese","In a piranha infested river, monkeys drink water using a straw."
"Portuguese","In war, hunting, and love, for one pleasure a hundred pains."
"Portuguese","It is nothing, they are only killing my husband."
"Portuguese","In the land of the blind, the one-eyed man is a king."
"Portuguese","In default of bread, meal cakes are good."
"Portuguese","In blacksmith's house, wood skewer."
"Portuguese","In at one ear and out at the other."
"Portuguese","In April, tons of water."
"Portuguese","In adversity is when friendship is proven."
"Portuguese","Justice begins at home."
"Portuguese","Iron kills iron dies."
"Portuguese","It's better who God helps than who early arouses."
"Portuguese","Let every man mind his own business, and leave others to theirs."
"Portuguese","Jack of all trades and master of none."
"Portuguese","Jack is as good as his master."
"Portuguese","It?s hard to please Greeks and Troyans."
"Portuguese","It's when it's small that the cucumber gets warped."
"Portuguese","It's not worth undressing a saint to dress another one."
"Portuguese","It's like exchanging six for half a dozen."
"Portuguese","It is bad to have a servant, but worse to have a master."
"Portuguese","It's easier to catch a liar than a limping person."
"Portuguese","It is better to receive awards that you don't deserve rather than deserve them and not receive them."
"Portuguese","It's better one 'Take this' than two 'I will give this to you'."
"Portuguese","It's better not to poke a jaguar with a short staff."
"Portuguese","It's best to prevent than to have to remedy."
"Portuguese","It's an ill supper which come from other's hand."
"Portuguese","It is well to know how to be silent till it is time to speak."
"Portuguese","It is the nature of the greyhound to carry a long tail."
"Portuguese","In a dangerous river, the alligators swim backstroke."
"Portuguese","It's hard to please Greeks and Trojans at the same time."
"Portuguese","if one disdains, one wants to buy."
"Portuguese","If you have a friend who is a physician, send him to your enemy's house."
"Portuguese","If you have a friend who is a doctor, then send him to your enemy's house."
"Portuguese","If you give orders and leave, the work won't get done."
"Portuguese","If you don?t have a dog, you hunt with a cat."
"Portuguese","If you can't beat them, join them."
"Portuguese","If the deceased is no good, one shouldn't waste good candles on him."
"Portuguese","In a quarrel between a husband and his wife, keep away."
"Portuguese","If one loves the ugly, one shall find it beautiful."
"Portuguese","If you laugh to-day, you will cry to-morrow."
"Portuguese","If old age was the same as wisdom, any old donkey would be a celebrated Justice."
"Portuguese","If marriage were a good thing, it wouldn't need witnesses."
"Portuguese","If life gives you a lemon, make a caipirinha out of it."
"Portuguese","If kneeled, then you've gotta pray."
"Portuguese","If a rich man ate a snake, they would say it was because of his wisdom."
"Portuguese","If a poor man gives to you, he expects more in return."
"Portuguese","Idleness is mother to all vices."
"Portuguese","If rape is unavoidable, relax and enjoy it."
"Portuguese","If you would be healthy, be sage betimes."
"Portuguese","In a closed mouth the flies can't come in."
"Portuguese","In a breadless home, everyone complains and nobody is right."
"Portuguese","Ill weeds are not hurt by frost."
"Portuguese","Ill fares the young bird in the urchin's hand."
"Portuguese","Ill befal the belly that forgets eaten bread."
"Portuguese","If you would make an enemy, lend a man money, and ask for it back again."
"Portuguese","If you would have the dog follow you, give him bread."
"Portuguese","If you have a lemon, make lemonade out of it."
"Portuguese","If you would be in good repute, let not the sun find you in bed."
"Portuguese","If you know what a dollar is worth, try to borrow it."
"Portuguese","If you would be happy for a week take a wife; if you would be happy for a month kill a pig; but if you would be happy all your life plant a garden."
"Portuguese","If you would be a good judge, hear what every one says."
"Portuguese","If you want to know villain, give him a stick."
"Portuguese","If you want to be served, serve yourself."
"Portuguese","If you want good advice, consult an old man."
"Portuguese","If you want clear water, draw it from the spring."
"Portuguese","Keep good company and you shall be of the number."
"Portuguese","If you would grow poor without perceiving it, employ workmen and go to sleep."
"Portuguese","Make good flour and you need no trumpet."
"Portuguese","Marry me forthwith, mother, for my face is growing wrinkled."
"Portuguese","Married couples who love each other tell each other a thousand things without talking."
"Portuguese","Many little makes a mickle."
"Portuguese","Many kiss the hand they would gladly see cut off."
"Portuguese","Man is fire, woman is tow, and the devil comes and blows."
"Portuguese","Make yourself honey and the flies will eat you."
"Portuguese","Love should be paid with love."
"Portuguese","Make the night night, and the day day, and you will live pleasantly."
"Portuguese","Marry, marry, and what about the housekeeping."
"Portuguese","Make a silver bridge for a flying enemy."
"Portuguese","Mad love, I for you and you for another."
"Portuguese","Mad as a wet hen."
"Portuguese","Lying pays no tax."
"Portuguese","Luck favours the bold."
"Portuguese","Lovers' quarrels are love redoubled."
"Portuguese","Jack will never make a gentleman."
"Portuguese","Make your son you heir and not your steward."
"Portuguese","Misery loves company."
"Portuguese","Money soothes more than the words of a cavalier."
"Portuguese","Money makes a man."
"Portuguese","Money lent, an enemy made."
"Portuguese","Money is the root of all evil."
"Portuguese","Money is the measure of all things."
"Portuguese","Money is not gained by losing time."
"Portuguese","Money doesn't sprout on trees."
"Portuguese","Marry your son when you please, your daughter when you can."
"Portuguese","Money alone can't make one happy."
"Portuguese","Marry, and grow tame."
"Portuguese","Misers' money goes twice to market."
"Portuguese","Michael, Michael, you have no bees, and yet you sell honey."
"Portuguese","Meowing cats catch fewer mice."
"Portuguese","Meddle not in what you don't understand."
"Portuguese","Martha sings well when she has had her fill."
"Portuguese","Marry, marry, sounds well but tastes ill."
"Portuguese","Love knows no law."
"Portuguese","Money doesn't bring happiness."
"Portuguese","Laws go where dollars please."
"Portuguese","Let every sheep hand by its own leg."
"Portuguese","Let every one be content with what God has given him."
"Portuguese","Tell me with whom thou goest, and I'll tell thee what thou doest."
"Portuguese","Let every man look to the bread upon which he must depend."
"Portuguese","The key at the girdle keeps me good and my neighbour too."
"Portuguese","Layovers for meddlers."
"Portuguese","Lovers' fights, double loves."
"Portuguese","Laws go where money pleases."
"Portuguese","Let not him that has a mouth ask another to blow."
"Portuguese","Laugh better he who laughs last."
"Portuguese","Knowledge is power."
"Portuguese","Kings have long arms."
"Portuguese","King's entreaties are commands."
"Portuguese","Keep your sickness until Friday and don't fast."
"Portuguese","Keep no more cats that will catch mice."
"Portuguese","Keep no more cats than will catch mice."
"Portuguese","Lay your hand on your bosom and you will not speak ill of another."
"Portuguese","Like father, like son."
"Portuguese","Love is paid with love."
"Portuguese","Love is blind."
"Portuguese","Love has no law."
"Portuguese","Love and lordship like no fellowship."
"Portuguese","Love and faith are seen in works."
"Portuguese","love and faith are seen in their works."
"Portuguese","Live to live and you will learn to live."
"Portuguese","Let him eat the tough morsel who eat the tender."
"Portuguese","Like king, like law; like law, like people."
"Portuguese","Let me go warm, and folks may laugh."
"Portuguese","Life begins at 40!"
"Portuguese","Let the guts be full, for it is they that carry the legs."
"Portuguese","Let the giver be silent and the receiver speak."
"Portuguese","Let the dog bark at me, so he don't bite me."
"Portuguese","Let not the tongue utter what the head must pay for."
"Portuguese","Let not the bottom of your purse or of your mind be seen."
"Portuguese","Money wins the battle, not the long arm."
"Portuguese","Little chips kindle fire, and big logs sustain it."
"Portuguese","Trust not a dog that limps."
"Portuguese","What the eyes don't see the heart doesn't feel."
"Portuguese","Two eyes see more than one."
"Portuguese","Two eyes see better than only one."
"Portuguese","Truth and oil come to the surface."
"Portuguese","Trust the virgin and don't run."
"Portuguese","Trust not tow with firebrands, not a woman with men."
"Portuguese","Under fair words beware of fraud."
"Portuguese","Trust not a horse's heels."
"Portuguese","Under the sackcloth there is something else."
"Portuguese","Too much wax burns the church."
"Portuguese","Too much familiarity breeds contempt."
"Portuguese","Too much alms, the saint will be suspicious."
"Portuguese","Too many candles will burn down the church."
"Portuguese","To the lean pig a fat acorn."
"Portuguese","To the child and the little bird, God catches the fall."
"Portuguese","To the bold man Fortune holds out her hand."
"Portuguese","Trust not a new friend or an old enemy."
"Portuguese","War is sweet to him who does not go to it."
"Portuguese","The hole invites the thief."
"Portuguese","What is bought is cheaper than a gift."
"Portuguese","What is another's always sighs for its master."
"Portuguese","What can't be cured, must be endured."
"Portuguese","Well begun is half done."
"Portuguese","We have not saddled and yet we are riding."
"Portuguese","Under a shabby cloak may be a smart drinker."
"Portuguese","Water by Saint John's takes oil and doesn't give bread."
"Portuguese","to sail is necesary, survive is not necessary."
"Portuguese","Walnuts and pears you plant for your heirs."
"Portuguese","Walls sink and dunghills rise."
"Portuguese","Walls have ears."
"Portuguese","Visits always give pleasure -- if not at the arrival, then at the departure."
"Portuguese","Vile let him be who deems himself vile."
"Portuguese","Unused iron is ruined by rust."
"Portuguese","Unlucky in gambling, lucky in love."
"Portuguese","Water washes everything."
"Portuguese","Though the heron flied high the falcon kills it."
"Portuguese","Three or four daily will bring you to the bottom of the sack."
"Portuguese","Three brothers, three fortresses."
"Portuguese","Threatened folks eat bread."
"Portuguese","Threads do not break for being fine, but for being gouty and ill-spun."
"Portuguese","Though your mastiff be gentle, do not bite his lip."
"Portuguese","Though we may pluck flowers by the way we may not sleep among flowers."
"Portuguese","To separate the men from the boys."
"Portuguese","Though the mastiff be gentle, yet bite him not by the lip."
"Portuguese","Time and the hour are not to be tied with a rope."
"Portuguese","Those who are born to pennies never make it to pounds."
"Portuguese","Those who are born to be small shit never make it to big shit."
"Portuguese","Third time pays for all."
"Portuguese","Third time lucky."
"Portuguese","Third time is the charm."
"Portuguese","Thinking of where you are going, you forget from whence you came."
"Portuguese","Thinking is not knowing."
"Portuguese","Though we are negroes, we are men, and have souls."
"Portuguese","To change one's habits smacks of death."
"Portuguese","What the fool does at last the wise man does at first."
"Portuguese","To promise much means giving little."
"Portuguese","To make an error is human, keep doing it is foolishness."
"Portuguese","To make a error is human; pushing the same error is dumb."
"Portuguese","To love and be wise is incompatible."
"Portuguese","To lather an ass's head is only wasting soap."
"Portuguese","To give is honour, to beg is dishonour."
"Portuguese","Throw that bone to another dog."
"Portuguese","To eat and to itch is in the beggining."
"Portuguese","Throwing your cap at a bird is not the way to catch it."
"Portuguese","To change one's habits has a smell of death."
"Portuguese","To be slow in giving ant to refuse, are alike."
"Portuguese","To a hasty question a leisurely answer."
"Portuguese","Times tries a'."
"Portuguese","Times passes like the wind."
"Portuguese","Time is money."
"Portuguese","To sell honey to one who keeps hives."
"Portuguese","To err is human; to forgive is divine."
"Portuguese","Woman, wind, and luck soon change."
"Portuguese","What is marriage, mother? Daughter, it is spinning, bearing children, and weeping."
"Portuguese","Work expands so as to fill the time available."
"Portuguese","Work done expects money."
"Portuguese","Words, cast them to the wind."
"Portuguese","Women are supernumerary when present, and missed when absent."
"Portuguese","Women are always better the following year."
"Portuguese","Would you have potatoes grow by the pot-side?"
"Portuguese","Women and glass are always in danger."
"Portuguese","Would you know your daughter? See her in company."
"Portuguese","Wolf doesn't eat wolf."
"Portuguese","With iron you hurt, with iron you?ll get hurt."
"Portuguese","Wipe your sore eye with your elbow."
"Portuguese","Wipe the nose of your neighbour's son, and marry him to your daughter."
"Portuguese","Wind and fortune are not lasting."
"Portuguese","Win a bet of your friend, and drink it on the spot."
"Portuguese","Will he nill he, the ass must go the fair."
"Portuguese","Women and glasses are always in danger."
"Portuguese","You need not find a shelter for an old ox."
"Portuguese","I want more for my teeth than for my relations."
"Portuguese","No one is poor but he who thinks himself so."
"Portuguese","Your windmill dwindles into a nutcrack."
"Portuguese","Your wife and sheep early at home."
"Portuguese","You will not see many with green eyes."
"Portuguese","You will know what something is really worth, when you loose it forever."
"Portuguese","Would you have me serve you, good king, give me the means of living."
"Portuguese","You should not demise what you get for free."
"Portuguese","Who is hurry, goes walking."
"Portuguese","You may keep yourself safe from fire, but not from a bad man."
"Portuguese","You have to suffer a lot or die young."
"Portuguese","You have many strings to your bow."
"Portuguese","You have lent and not recovered; and if recovered, not so much; and if so much, not such; and if such, a mortal enemy."
"Portuguese","You can't make horn of a pig's tail."
"Portuguese","You can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear."
"Portuguese","You can't make a good shaft of a pig's tail."
"Portuguese","You tie the horse at the will of the master."
"Portuguese","When the cucumber is small, you can warp it easier."
"Portuguese","Where the cock is the hen does not crow."
"Portuguese","Where shall the ox go, and not have to plough?"
"Portuguese","Where shall the ox go but he must labour, since he knows how?"
"Portuguese","Where friends, there riches."
"Portuguese","When thieves fall out, their knaveries come to light."
"Portuguese","When the wine is in, the wit is out."
"Portuguese","Who will not when he can, can't when he will."
"Portuguese","When the old dog barks, he gives counsel."
"Portuguese","Where there is life there is hope."
"Portuguese","When the cat's away the mice will play."
"Portuguese","When the alms is too large, even a saint will be suspicious."
"Portuguese","When it is in an unlucky phase, the vulture below, shits on the vulture above."
"Portuguese","When bulls fight, woe to the frogs."
"Portuguese","What's everybody's work is nobody's work."
"Portuguese","What water gives, water takes away."
"Portuguese","What was hard to bear is sweet to remember."
"Portuguese","When the ox falls, there are many that will help to kill him."
"Portuguese","Where you tell your secret you surrender your freedom."
"Portuguese","Think of many things -- do one."
"Portuguese","Who holds his peace and gathers stones, will find a time to throw them."
"Portuguese","Who faints not, achieves."
"Portuguese","Who eats his fowl alone, must saddle his horse alone."
"Portuguese","Whither goest thou, Misfortune? To where there is more."
"Portuguese","Whilst we drink, prank ourselves, with wenches daily, Old age upon's at unawares doth sally."
"Portuguese","Whilst the tall maid is stooping, the little one sweeps the house."
"Portuguese","Where the river is deepest it makes the least noise."
"Portuguese","Where you were a page, be not an esquire."
"Portuguese","Where the wolf gets one lamb he looks for another."
"Portuguese","Where there's no might there's no right."
"Portuguese","Where there's no fire there's no smoke."
"Portuguese","Where there is smoke there is fire."
"Portuguese","Where there is no honour there is no dishonour."
"Portuguese","Where there is no fire, no smoke rises."
"Portuguese","Where there is little bread, cut first."
"Portuguese","Who stays quiet agrees."
"Portuguese","While there's life, there's hope."
"Portuguese","The fisherman fishes in troubled water."
"Portuguese","Think of many things, do one."
"Portuguese","The grass is always greener on your neighbor's yard."
"Portuguese","The gentle calf sucks all the cows."
"Portuguese","The gardener's dog neither eats greens not lets any one else eat them."
"Portuguese","The full-fed sheep is frightened at its own tail."
"Portuguese","The Frenchman sings well, when his throat is moistened."
"Portuguese","The guests will go away, and we will eat the pasty."
"Portuguese","The fool passes for wise if he is silent."
"Portuguese","The habit doesn't make the monk."
"Portuguese","The fingers of the same hand are not alike."
"Portuguese","The fear of God is the beginning of all wisdom."
"Portuguese","The father a saint the son a devil."
"Portuguese","The envious man's face grows lean and his eye swells."
"Portuguese","The ends justify the means."
"Portuguese","The end justifies the means."
"Portuguese","The end crowns the work."
"Portuguese","The fox knows much, but more he that catcheth him."
"Portuguese","The lazy servant takes eight steps to avoid one."
"Portuguese","The mare's kick does not harm the colt."
"Portuguese","The man of your own trade is your enemy."
"Portuguese","The man of sense does not hang up his knowledge."
"Portuguese","The malady that is more incurable is folly."
"Portuguese","The mad dog bites its master."
"Portuguese","The lucky man has a daughter for his first-born."
"Portuguese","The greyhound that starts many hares kills none."
"Portuguese","The loss which your neighbour does not know is no real loss."
"Portuguese","The dog that barks much, bites little."
"Portuguese","The law devised, its evasion contrived."
"Portuguese","The lame goat does not take a siesta."
"Portuguese","The king of the bees has no sting."
"Portuguese","The horse's best allowance is his master's eye."
"Portuguese","The hen's eyes turn to where she has her eggs."
"Portuguese","The hen that stays at home picks up the crumbs."
"Portuguese","The headache is mine and the cows are ours."
"Portuguese","The loudest bark rids not a dog of his fleas."
"Portuguese","The ass embraced the thistle, and they found themselves relations."
"Portuguese","The belly does not accept bail."
"Portuguese","The beast that goes well never wants a rider to try its paces."
"Portuguese","The bad neighbour gives a needle without thread."
"Portuguese","The ass's son brays one hour daily."
"Portuguese","The ass well knows in whose house he brays."
"Portuguese","The ass that trespasses on a stranger's premises will leave them laden with wood."
"Portuguese","The dog wags his tail, not for you, but for your bread."
"Portuguese","The ass of many owners is eaten by wolves."
"Portuguese","The bigger the river the bigger the fish."
"Portuguese","The ass does not know the value of his tail till he has lost it."
"Portuguese","The ass dead, the corn at his tail."
"Portuguese","The archer that shoots badly has a lie ready."
"Portuguese","The accomplice is as bad as the thief."
"Portuguese","Tell your friends a lie; if he keeps it secret tell him the truth."
"Portuguese","Tell your friend your secret, and he will set his foot on your neck."
"Portuguese","Tell your friend a lie. If he keeps it secret, then tell him the truth."
"Portuguese","The ass that is hungry eats thistles."
"Portuguese","The cat bit your tongue."
"Portuguese","The master's eye makes the horse fat."
"Portuguese","The dog that barks much is never good for hunting."
"Portuguese","The devil is not so ugly as he is painted."
"Portuguese","The dead open the eyes of the living."
"Portuguese","The dead and the absent have no friends."
"Portuguese","The chicken that stays in the farmyard, will peck the crumbs."
"Portuguese","The cheap things prove to be expensive at the end."
"Portuguese","The belly warm, the foot at rest."
"Portuguese","The cat is a good friend, only she scratches."
"Portuguese","The better day the better deed."
"Portuguese","The bread never falls but on its buttered side."
"Portuguese","The bread eaten, the company departs."
"Portuguese","The blunders of physicians are covered by the earth."
"Portuguese","The blind man has picked up a coin."
"Portuguese","The bird hunting a locust is unaware of the hawk hunting him."
"Portuguese","The bigger they are, the harder they fall."
"Portuguese","The dog that kills wolves, is killed by wolves."
"Portuguese","The cat well knows whose beard she licks."
"Portuguese","The tongue goes to the aching tooth."
"Portuguese","The worst pig eats the best acorn."
"Portuguese","The worst blind is that who doesn't want to see."
"Portuguese","The wolf never wants a pretext against the lamb."
"Portuguese","The wolf loses his teeth, but not his inclination."
"Portuguese","The wolf is well pleased with the kick of a sheep."
"Portuguese","The wolf eats of what is counted."
"Portuguese","The swindler readily cheats the covetous man."
"Portuguese","The treason approved, the traitor abhorred."
"Portuguese","There are bad things that come for the good."
"Portuguese","The tired mare goes willingly to grass."
"Portuguese","The thief who steals another one is forgiven for 100 years."
"Portuguese","The thief thinks that all are like himself."
"Portuguese","The thief proceeds from a needle to gold, and from gold to the gallows."
"Portuguese","The thief becomes the gallows well."
"Portuguese","The tailor ill-dressed, the shoemaker ill-shod."
"Portuguese","The mare's kicks are caresses to the colt."
"Portuguese","The wine-skin has its reasons for smelling of pitch."
"Portuguese","There is no pleasure that does not pall, the more so if it costs nothing."
"Portuguese","Tell me your friends and I'll tell you who you are."
"Portuguese","Thief who steals thief has one hundred years of pardon."
"Portuguese","They are rich who have friends."
"Portuguese","There's no living without friends."
"Portuguese","There's no handsome woman on the wedding day, except the bride."
"Portuguese","There's no compassion like the penny."
"Portuguese","There's no catching trouts with dry breeches."
"Portuguese","The worth of a thing is what it will bring."
"Portuguese","There is plenty of corn in Castile, but he who has none, starves."
"Portuguese","The wrath of brothers is the wrath of devils."
"Portuguese","There is no day without its night."
"Portuguese","There is never wanting a dog to bark at you."
"Portuguese","There is a remedy for everything; it is called death."
"Portuguese","There die as many lambs as wethers."
"Portuguese","There are many ways to leave this world but only one way to come into it."
"Portuguese","There are ills that happen for good."
"Portuguese","The Sun rises for everybody."
"Portuguese","There is reason in the roasting of eggs."
"Portuguese","The nest made, the bird dead."
"Portuguese","The only good thing that comes from the east is the sun."
"Portuguese","The only good Indian is a dead Indian."
"Portuguese","The one-eyes is a king in the land of the blind."
"Portuguese","The one who left, lost his place."
"Portuguese","The one who kneeled, must pray."
"Portuguese","The one in a hurry, will have a raw and hot meal."
"Portuguese","The sword and the ring according to the hand that bears them."
"Portuguese","The night is good counsellor."
"Portuguese","The ox that tossed me threw me into a good place."
"Portuguese","The mouth that says ""Yes,"" can say ""No."""
"Portuguese","The mother-in-law does not remember that she was once a daughter-in-law."
"Portuguese","The mistress is queen, the wife is the slave."
"Portuguese","The misfortune of many is a consolation."
"Portuguese","The mill does not grind with water that is past."
"Portuguese","The midwifes fight, the truths are uncovered."
"Portuguese","Think of many things, but do just one at a time."
"Portuguese","The old saints are forgotten in the new."
"Portuguese","The rat that knows but one hole is soon caught."
"Portuguese","The sooty oven mocks the black chimney."
"Portuguese","The sooner begun, the sooner done."
"Portuguese","The son-in-law's sack is never full."
"Portuguese","The sheep that bleats loses a mouthful."
"Portuguese","The savage ox grows tame on strange ground."
"Portuguese","The rivers flow to the ocean."
"Portuguese","The ripest fruit will not fall into your mouth."
"Portuguese","The opportunity makes the thief."
"Portuguese","The rat which has but one hole is soon caught."
"Portuguese","The owner?s eye fattens the horse."
"Portuguese","The rat does not leave the cat's house with a bellyful."
"Portuguese","The queen bee has no sting."
"Portuguese","The pot that boils too much loses its flavour."
"Portuguese","The poor man eats at double cost."
"Portuguese","The pitcher that goes often to the well leaves either its handle or its spout there."
"Portuguese","The person who is well prepared has already won half of the battle."
"Portuguese","The master orders the man, the man orders the cat, and the cat orders her tail."
"Portuguese","The righteous pays for the sinner."
"Portuguese","Better mine than ours."
"Portuguese","Better droping than dry."
"Portuguese","Better gain in mud than lose in gold."
"Portuguese","Better go round than be drowned."
"Portuguese","Better have a bad ass than be your own ass."
"Portuguese","Better have friends in the market-place than money in your coffer."
"Portuguese","Better have to give than have to beg."
"Portuguese","Better is a leap over the ditch than the entreaties of good men."
"Portuguese","Better is my neighbour's hen than mine."
"Portuguese","Better is one ""Take this,"" than two ""I-will-give-you."""
"Portuguese","Better just repair the gutter than the whole house."
"Portuguese","Better keep, than have to beg."
"Portuguese","Don't be a baker if your head is made of butter."
"Portuguese","Better lose that lose more."
"Portuguese","Better be wrong with the many than right with the few."
"Portuguese","Better preventing than fixing."
"Portuguese","Better repair the gutter than the whole house."
"Portuguese","Better straw, than nothing."
"Portuguese","Better to be queen for an hour than a countess for life."
"Portuguese","Better to have friends in the marketplace than money in your coffers."
"Portuguese","No word is ill spoken, that is not ill taken."
"Portuguese","I see by my daughter's face when the devil lays hold of my son-in-law."
"Portuguese","Between husband and wife, one doesn't put the spoon."
"Portuguese","Between smith and smith no money passes."
"Portuguese","Between the hand and the lip the morsel may slip."
"Portuguese","Between the hand and the mouth the soup is lost."
"Portuguese","Better late than never."
"Portuguese","Before you marry, watch what you do."
"Portuguese","Another's misfortune does not cure my pain."
"Portuguese","Appearances are deceiving."
"Portuguese","As the king lives, so live his vassals."
"Portuguese","As they pipe to me, I will dance."
"Portuguese","At night all cats are brown."
"Portuguese","At night all cats are grey."
"Portuguese","Basketeer who makes a basket makes a hundred if he's given line and time."
"Portuguese","Baskets after the vintage."
"Portuguese","Be sure not to owe anything to the rich, and don't lend anything to the poor."
"Portuguese","Beauty is a good letter of introduction."
"Portuguese","Beauty lies in the eyes of the beholder."
"Portuguese","Better deserve honour and not have it, than have it and not deserve it."
"Portuguese","Before you marry reflect, for it is a knot you cannot untie."
"Portuguese","Better bend than break."
"Portuguese","Better a distant good than a near evil."
"Portuguese","Better a red face than a black heart."
"Portuguese","Better a sparrow in the hand than two flying."
"Portuguese","Better alone than in bad company."
"Portuguese","Better an ass that carries me than a horse that throws me."
"Portuguese","Better an egg in peace, than an ox in war."
"Portuguese","Better anticipate than be anticipated."
"Portuguese","Better be killed by robbers than by the kick of an ass."
"Portuguese","Better be one-eyed than quite blind."
"Portuguese","Better be out of the world than out of the fashion."
"Portuguese","Better be silent than speak ill."
"Portuguese","Beware of a man that does not talk, and of a dog that does not bark."
"Portuguese","Before you marry consider what you do."
"Portuguese","Death makes us equal in the grave but not in eternity."
"Portuguese","Beware of a bad woman, and put no trust in a good one."
"Portuguese","Children tell in the highway what they hear by the fireside."
"Portuguese","Children: one is one, two is fun, three is a houseful."
"Portuguese","Children: one is one, two is fun, three is a houseful."
"Portuguese","Choleric men are blind and mad."
"Portuguese","Conceal not your secret from your friend, or you deserve to lose him."
"Portuguese","Concealed goodness is a sort of vice."
"Portuguese","Confess and be hanged."
"Portuguese","Counterfeit coin passes current at night."
"Portuguese","Crime doesn't pay."
"Portuguese","Crows do not peck out crow's eyes."
"Portuguese","Children raised, doubled work."
"Portuguese","Dear is cheap, and cheap is dear."
"Portuguese","Children pick up words, as pigeons peas, And utter them again as God shall please."
"Portuguese","Death spares neither Pope nor beggar."
"Portuguese","Death squares all accounts."
"Portuguese","Deeds are love, and not sweet words."
"Portuguese","Despise your enemy and you will soon be beaten."
"Portuguese","Destroy the lion while he is but a whelp."
"Portuguese","Dirty clothes one washes at home."
"Portuguese","Divide to conquer."
"Portuguese","Do as I say, not as I do."
"Portuguese","Do good, and care not to whom."
"Portuguese","Do ill, and expect the like."
"Portuguese","Do not rear a bird of a bad breed."
"Portuguese","Do not tell all that you know, don't believe all you hear, and don't do all that you can."
"Portuguese","Dead men tell no tales."
"Portuguese","Brag is a good dog, but Holdfast is better."
"Portuguese","An open countenance often conceals close thoughts."
"Portuguese","Beware of a pledge that eats."
"Portuguese","Beware of silent dogs and still waters."
"Portuguese","Beware of the dog that does not bark."
"Portuguese","Beware of the door with too many keys."
"Portuguese","Big fish are fished in big rivers."
"Portuguese","Big walks, big lies."
"Portuguese","Birds of prey do not flock together."
"Portuguese","Bite the biter."
"Portuguese","Bleed him, purge him, and if he dies, bury him."
"Portuguese","Blessed are the dead that the rain rains on."
"Portuguese","Children should be seen and not heard."
"Portuguese","Brackish water is sweet in a drought."
"Portuguese","Beware of a door that has many keys."
"Portuguese","Broken friendship may be soldered but can never be made sound."
"Portuguese","Buy your greyhound, don't rear him."
"Portuguese","By going gains the mill, and not by standing still."
"Portuguese","By its fruits one knows the tree."
"Portuguese","Chairs sink and stools rise."
"Portuguese","Change yourself, and fortune will change with you."
"Portuguese","Change yourself, and your luck will change."
"Portuguese","Change yourself, change your fortunes."
"Portuguese","Change yourself; change your fortunes."
"Portuguese","Chastise the good man, he will grow better; chastise the bad, and he will grow worse."
"Portuguese","Cheat me in the price and not in the goods."
"Portuguese","Children married, cares increased."
"Portuguese","Blessed is he who expects nothing, for he shall never be disappointed."
"Portuguese","A great thrust of a lance at a dead Moor."
"Portuguese","A little leak will sink a great ship."
"Portuguese","A friend's fault should be known but not abhorred."
"Portuguese","A full man is no eater."
"Portuguese","A girl, a vineyard and a beanfield are difficult to guard."
"Portuguese","A girl, a vineyard, an orchard, and a bean-field, are hard to watch."
"Portuguese","A good cock was never fat."
"Portuguese","A good thing is known when it is lost."
"Portuguese","A good thing is soon caught up."
"Portuguese","A good word quenches more than a cauldron of water."
"Portuguese","A good year is determined by its spring."
"Portuguese","A goose cannot graze after him."
"Portuguese","A fly doesn't enter in a closed mouth."
"Portuguese","A gossiping woman talks of everybody, and everybody of her."
"Portuguese","A finger's length in a sword, and a palm in a lance, are a great advantage."
"Portuguese","A guest and a fish stink in three days."
"Portuguese","A handsome hostess is bad for the purse."
"Portuguese","A house without a dog or a cat is the house of a scoundrel."
"Portuguese","A house without either a cat or a dog is the house of a scoundrel."
"Portuguese","A hungry belly hears nobody."
"Portuguese","A hungry wolf is not at rest."
"Portuguese","A liar is sooner caught than a cripple."
"Portuguese","A lie has short legs."
"Portuguese","A life of leisure, and a life of laziness, are two things."
"Portuguese","A little gall spoils much honey."
"Portuguese","A little injury dismays, and a great one stills."
"Portuguese","Another's bread costs dear."
"Portuguese","A goose, a woman, and a goat, are bad things lean."
"Portuguese","A cat that is hidden with its tail showing."
"Portuguese","What is marriage, mother? ""Child, it is spinning, having children, making money, and weeping."
"Portuguese","A bad knife cuts one's finger instead of the stick."
"Portuguese","A bad neighbor will give you a needle with no thread."
"Portuguese","A barking dog was never a good hunter."
"Portuguese","A barley corn is better than a diamond to a cock."
"Portuguese","A beard lathered is half shaved."
"Portuguese","A beard once washed is half shaven."
"Portuguese","A beggar's wallet is never full."
"Portuguese","A bird in the hand is more worth than two flying."
"Portuguese","A bustling mother makes a slothful daughter."
"Portuguese","A busy mother makes slothful daughters."
"Portuguese","A friend is to be taken with his faults."
"Portuguese","A cat that has been scalded is afraid of cold water."
"Portuguese","A little makes a debtor and much an enemy."
"Portuguese","A contented ass enjoys a long life."
"Portuguese","A dead man does not speak."
"Portuguese","A dog bitten by a snake is afraid of sausages."
"Portuguese","A dog in the manger, that neither eats nor lets others eat."
"Portuguese","A dog that has been bitten by a snake, fears the sausage."
"Portuguese","A donkey's cries don't reach heaven."
"Portuguese","A drunk's ass has no master."
"Portuguese","A dull ass near home trots without the stick."
"Portuguese","A fair-weather friend changes with the wind."
"Portuguese","A fast horse does not want the spur."
"Portuguese","A fault confessed is half forgiven."
"Portuguese","A fault confessed is half redressed."
"Portuguese","A capon eight months old is fit for a king's table."
"Portuguese","All the world will beat the man whom fortune buffets."
"Portuguese","A little knowledge is a dangerous thing."
"Portuguese","A word from the mouth, a stone from the hand."
"Portuguese","A word to the wise is enough."
"Portuguese","A word to the wise."
"Portuguese","After shaving there is nothing to shear."
"Portuguese","After the storm comes the easiness."
"Portuguese","After the storm comes the good weather."
"Portuguese","Alas for the son whose father went to heaven."
"Portuguese","All are not soldiers who go to the wars."
"Portuguese","All bite the bitten dog."
"Portuguese","All is not gold that glitters."
"Portuguese","A word and a blow."
"Portuguese","All the world loves a lover."
"Portuguese","A woman with two husbands cheats both."
"Portuguese","An abyss calls another."
"Portuguese","An angry man heeds no counsel."
"Portuguese","An empty purse and a new house make a man wise, but too late."
"Portuguese","An empty purse frights away friends."
"Portuguese","An estate inherited is the less valued."
"Portuguese","An honest man's word is as good as the king's."
"Portuguese","An hour of play discovers more than a year of conversation does."
"Portuguese","An innocent heart suspects no guile."
"Portuguese","An old man in love is like a flower in winter."
"Portuguese","An old monkey will not stick his hand into a jar."
"Portuguese","An open box tempts an honest man."
"Portuguese","An healthy mind for an healthy body."
"Portuguese","All the wool is hair, more or less."
"Portuguese","A scalded cat dreads cold water."
"Portuguese","A long tongue betokens a short hand."
"Portuguese","A looker on sees more of the game than a player."
"Portuguese","A loss not missed by your neighbor is not a real loss."
"Portuguese","A man of straw is better than a woman of gold."
"Portuguese","A morsel eaten gains no friend."
"Portuguese","A much prayed for defunct goes straight to hell."
"Portuguese","A pig on credit makes a good winter and a bad spring."
"Portuguese","A poor man is hungry after eating."
"Portuguese","A ragged colt may make a handsome horse."
"Portuguese","A rash man, a skin of good wine, and a glass vessel, do not last long."
"Portuguese","A resolute heart endures no counsel."
"Portuguese","A word and a stone once let go cannot be recalled."
"Portuguese","A rich widow weeps with one eye and signals with the other."
"Portuguese","Another man's trade costs money."
"Portuguese","A scalded cat fears cold water."
"Portuguese","A seat in the council is honour without profit."
"Portuguese","A servant and a cock must be kept but one year."
"Portuguese","A sharp tooth for hard bread."
"Portuguese","A shut mouth keeps me out of strife."
"Portuguese","A small hatchet fells a great oak."
"Portuguese","A small pack becomes a small pedler."
"Portuguese","A small spark makes a great fire."
"Portuguese","A small tear relieves a great sorrow."
"Portuguese","A stout heart breaks ill fortune."
"Portuguese","A well-formed figure needs no cloak."
"Portuguese","A woman and a hen are soon lost through gadding."
"Portuguese","A rich widow weeps in one eye and laughs with the other."
"Portuguese","Grain by grain the hen fills her crop."
"Portuguese","He has nothing who is not content with what he has."
"Portuguese","He has a head, and so has a pin."
"Portuguese","He doubts nothing who knows nothing."
"Portuguese","He buys very dear who begs."
"Portuguese","He avoided the fly and swallowed the spider."
"Portuguese","Having need of makes the ugly beautiful."
"Portuguese","Haste is the enemy of perfection."
"Portuguese","Hard with hard doesn't make a good wall."
"Portuguese","Hard upon hard does not make a good wall."
"Portuguese","Gulls on earth, storm in the sea."
"Portuguese","Grief pent up will burst the heart."
"Portuguese","Grief for a dead wife lasts to the door."
"Portuguese","Grass doesn't grow on a busy street."
"Portuguese","God gives clothes according to the cold."
"Portuguese","Good talk saves the food."
"Portuguese","Good is the delay which makes sure."
"Portuguese","Good management is better than good income."
"Portuguese","Good manners and plenty of money will make my son a gentlemen."
"Portuguese","Good men are scarce."
"Portuguese","Good news is rumoured and bad news flies."
"Portuguese","Grasp no more than thy hand will hold."
"Portuguese","Good take heed doth surely speed."
"Portuguese","Grasp all, lose all."
"Portuguese","Good things come in small packages."
"Portuguese","Good tree, good fruits."
"Portuguese","Good wind needs no bush."
"Portuguese","Good wine needs no bush."
"Portuguese","Good words and bad acts deceive both wise and wimple."
"Portuguese","He is a good dog who goes to church."
"Portuguese","Good table, bad will."
"Portuguese","He who has four and spends five, has no need of a purse."
"Portuguese","He has nothing, for whom nothing is enough."
"Portuguese","He threatens who is afraid."
"Portuguese","He who all wants, all loses."
"Portuguese","He who doesn't cry doesn't suckle."
"Portuguese","He who goes out to sea loses his place."
"Portuguese","He that would keep his eye sound must tie up his hand."
"Portuguese","He who has a good next, finds good friends."
"Portuguese","He that would be old long must begin betimes."
"Portuguese","He who has nothing is afraid of nothing."
"Portuguese","He who is well prepared has half won the battle."
"Portuguese","He who knows little soon blabs it."
"Portuguese","He who knows, knows. He who doesn't know, learns."
"Portuguese","He who lives shall see."
"Portuguese","He who make more of you than he is wont, either means to cheat you or wants you."
"Portuguese","He who has a glass roof must not throw stones at his neighbour's."
"Portuguese","He loves well who never forgets."
"Portuguese","Good and quickly seldom meet."
"Portuguese","He is an old saint, any may leave it in the hands of God."
"Portuguese","He is my friend who grinds at my mill."
"Portuguese","He is no friend that eats his own by himself, and mine with me."
"Portuguese","He is no great heir that inherits not his ancestor's virtues."
"Portuguese","He threatens many who affronts one."
"Portuguese","He keeps his road well enough who gets rid of bad company."
"Portuguese","He is a fool who thinks that another does not think."
"Portuguese","He made a pit and digged it, and has fallen into the ditch which he made."
"Portuguese","He made me mad To see him shine so brisk and smell so sweet."
"Portuguese","He never was a friend who ceased to be so for a slight cause."
"Portuguese","He should not complain of being cheated who buys the cloth by the sample."
"Portuguese","He that does ill never wants for excuses."
"Portuguese","He that will, does more that he that can."
"Portuguese","He is your friend who gets you out of a scrape."
"Portuguese","From the sublime to the ridiculous is only one step."
"Portuguese","From evil, the less."
"Portuguese","Get a name to rise early, and you may lie all day."
"Portuguese","Get a good name and go to sleep."
"Portuguese","Gambling sire, gambling son."
"Portuguese","Gain has a pleasant odour, come whence it will."
"Portuguese","Gifts from enemies are dangerous."
"Portuguese","From the sweetest wine, the tartest vinegar."
"Portuguese","Give a grateful man more than he asks."
"Portuguese","From the straws in the air we judge of the wind."
"Portuguese","From the soldier who has no cloak, keep your own in your chest."
"Portuguese","From Spain can come neither good winds nor good marriages."
"Portuguese","From several possible events, the less worse happened."
"Portuguese","From plate to mouth you miss the soup."
"Portuguese","Good habits result from resisting temptation."
"Portuguese","Frost on the mutt, water on the bed."
"Portuguese","Give orders, and do no more, and nothing will be done."
"Portuguese","God give you luck, my son, for little wit must serve your turn."
"Portuguese","Go to your rich friend's house when invited; to your poor friend's without invitation."
"Portuguese","Go to bed without supper, you will rise without debt."
"Portuguese","Go to bed late, rise early, you will see your own harm and that of others."
"Portuguese","Go not with every hunger to the cupboard, nor with every thirst to the pitcher."
"Portuguese","Gifts break rocks."
"Portuguese","Give to the poor, lend to God."
"Portuguese","From dissension, the light is born."
"Portuguese","Give orders, and do it yourself, and you will be rid of anxiety."
"Portuguese","Give me money, not advice."
"Portuguese","Give a man rope enough and he will hang himself."
"Portuguese","Give a loaf, and beg a shive."
"Portuguese","Give a little, take a little."
"Portuguese","Give a hint to the man of sense, and consider the thing done."
"Portuguese","Go not with every ailment to the doctor, nor with every plaint to lawyer."
"Portuguese","God helps him who wakes up early at dawn."
"Portuguese","From great rivers come great fish."
"Portuguese","Favour oft avails more than justice or reason."
"Portuguese","Far from the eyes, far from the heart."
"Portuguese","God gives nuts to who has no teeth."
"Portuguese","God grant me to dispute with those who understand me."
"Portuguese","Feign death and the bull will leave you."
"Portuguese","God heals, and the doctor gets the money."
"Portuguese","Fine words don't fill the belly."
"Portuguese","God helps them that help themselves."
"Portuguese","God helps those who help themselves."
"Portuguese","God permits, but not for ever."
"Portuguese","God writes straight by broken lines."
"Portuguese","Good and bad make up a city."
"Portuguese","He who sees face doesn't see heart."
"Portuguese","God has given nuts to one who has no teeth."
"Portuguese","For lack of men they made my father a justice."
"Portuguese","From a closed door the devil turns away."
"Portuguese","Friends are known in adversity."
"Portuguese","Friends are friends, business are business."
"Portuguese","Friends are flowers in the garden of life."
"Portuguese","Friends and mules fail us at hard passes."
"Portuguese","Feet accustomed to go cannot be still."
"Portuguese","For poor people small coin."
"Portuguese","Good fruit never comes from a bad tree."
"Portuguese","For a voracious beast pebbles in his feed."
"Portuguese","For a bad tongue scissors."
"Portuguese","Foot firm till death."
"Portuguese","Fools sometimes give wise men counsel."
"Portuguese","Follow the road and you will reach an inn."
"Portuguese","Fish's child knows how to swim."
"Portuguese","Four eyes see more than two."
"Portuguese","Eat with him, and beware of him."
"Portuguese","Every cloud has a silver lining."
"Portuguese","Everything has its time."
"Portuguese","Everything must have a beginning."
"Portuguese","Faintheart is always in danger."
"Portuguese","Fair and softly goes far in a day."
"Portuguese","Fair feathers make fair fowls."
"Portuguese","He who makes one basket can make a hundred."
"Portuguese","Every ant has its ire."
"Portuguese","He who plants winds harvests storms."
"Portuguese","Every pig has it Martinmas."
"Portuguese","Erring is human, forgiving is divine."
"Portuguese","Every pedlar praises his own needles."
"Portuguese","Eat to live, not live to eat."
"Portuguese","Eat the wind and swallow bitterness."
"Portuguese","Eat of your own, and call yourself mine."
"Portuguese","Early sleep and early wake up, gives health and makes you grow."
"Portuguese","Each one with his peer."
"Portuguese","Each one to his owner."
"Portuguese","Each one takes his/her own decisions."
"Portuguese","Each one in his profession."
"Portuguese","Each monkey on its own branch."
"Portuguese","Each monkey on its branch."
"Portuguese","Even the most beautiful sheets have small flaws."
"Portuguese","Every one is wise for his own profit."
"Portuguese","Every cock is valiant on his own dunghill."
"Portuguese","Every cock will crow upon his own dunghill."
"Portuguese","Every fly has its shadow."
"Portuguese","Every hair casts its shadow."
"Portuguese","Every cask smells of the wine it contains."
"Portuguese","Every land to its own custom, every wheel its own spindle."
"Portuguese","It is nothing -- they are only thrashing my husband."
"Portuguese","Every man for himself and God for all."
"Portuguese","Every man to his trade."
"Portuguese","Everybody's friend or nobody's friend, is all one."
"Portuguese","Every one is a king in his own house."
"Portuguese","During war, weapons aren't cleaned."
"Portuguese","Every one knows best where the shoe pinches him."
"Portuguese","Every one reaps as he sows."
"Portuguese","Every one sings as he has the gift, and marries as he has the luck."
"Portuguese","Every one speaks as he is."
"Portuguese","Every one speaks of the feast as he finds it."
"Portuguese","Every one stretches his legs according to the length of his coverlet."
"Portuguese","Every one to his equal."
"Portuguese","Every one to his liking."
"Portuguese","Every peddler praises his own needles."
"Portuguese","Every peddler speaks highly about his own needles."
"Portuguese","Every one for himself, and God for us all."
"Portuguese","Hell is full of good intentions."
"Portuguese","Hunger and cold surrender a man to his enemy."
"Portuguese","How did you rear so many children? By being fondest of the little ones."
"Portuguese","Hope is the last to die."
"Portuguese","Hope is the last one to die."
"Portuguese","Honour and profit will not keep in one sack."
"Portuguese","Honour a good man that he may honour you, and a bad man that he may not dishonour you."
"Portuguese","Honey is not for the ass's mouth."
"Portuguese","Home saints don't make miracles."
"Portuguese","Here you do, here you pay."
"Portuguese","Each head, a different judgement."
"Portuguese","Hell is paved with good intentions, and roofed with lost opportunities."
"Portuguese","I hate fetters though they be of gold."
"Portuguese","Hell is crowded with people of good intentions."
"Portuguese","Hedgehogs are not to be killed with the fist."
"Portuguese","Hear, see, and say nothing if you would live in peace."
"Portuguese","He who would catch fish must not mind wetting himself."
"Portuguese","He who warns, a good friend is."
"Portuguese","He who tries a bit of everything accomplishes much of nothing."
"Portuguese","He who tells a tale adds another period."
"Portuguese","He who stores, albeit being hungry, the rat will eat."
"Portuguese","He who serves two masters has to lie to one."
"Portuguese","Don't leave for tomorrow what you can do today."
"Portuguese","Hell's roof is made from lost causes."
"Portuguese","Don't let the cat out of the bag."
"Portuguese","Drink nothing without seeing it, sign nothing without reading it."
"Portuguese","Don?t undress a saint to dress the other."
"Portuguese","Don't put the cart before the oxen."
"Portuguese","An empty purse, and a finished house, make a man wise, but too late."
"Portuguese","Don't put all you eggs in one basket."
"Portuguese","Don't cry over spilt milk."
"Portuguese","Fair flowers do not remain long by the wayside."
"Portuguese","Don't pull hard enough to break the rope."
"Portuguese","Faith has no eyes; he who asks to see has no faith."
"Portuguese","Hunger is the best seasoning."
"Portuguese","Don't let your sorrow come higher than your knees."
"Portuguese","I am on good terms with the friend who eats his bread with me."
"Portuguese","Don't let the bastards grind you down."
"Portuguese","Don't leave the main road for a shortcut."
"Portuguese","Don't leave the high road for a short cut."
"Portuguese","I saw a man, who saw another man, who saw the sea."
"Portuguese","I renounce the golden basin in which I have to spit blood."
"Portuguese","I renounce the friend who eats what is mine with me, and what is his own by himself."
"Portuguese","I meant to cross myself and put out one of my eyes."
"Portuguese","I kiss thee hide, because thou art to be a wine-bag."
"Portuguese","I have nothing for dinner, sit down to table."
"Portuguese","Each head its sentence."
"Portuguese","Don't make yourself poor to one who won't make you rich."
"Portuguese","Better is a leap over the ditch than the entreaties of good men."
"Portuguese","Better be out of the world than out of the fashion."
"Portuguese","Better be silent than speak ill."
"Portuguese","Better lose that lose more."
"Portuguese","Better be wrong with the many than right with the few."
"Portuguese","Better deserve honour and not have it, than have it and not deserve it."
"Portuguese","Better go round than be drowned."
"Portuguese","Better have friends in the market-place than money in your coffer."
"Portuguese","Better is one ""Take this,"" than two ""I-will-give-you."""
"Portuguese","Better keep, than have to beg."
"Portuguese","Better is my neighbour's hen than mine."
"Portuguese","Better be one-eyed than quite blind."
"Portuguese","Before you marry consider what you do."
"Portuguese","Better have to give than have to beg."
"Portuguese","Baskets after the vintage."
"Portuguese","An hour of play discovers more than a year of conversation."
"Portuguese","An innocent heart suspects no guile."
"Portuguese","An old man in love is like a flower in winter."
"Portuguese","An open box tempts an honest man."
"Portuguese","An open countenance often conceals close thoughts."
"Portuguese","Another man's trade costs money."
"Portuguese","Better a distant good than a near evil."
"Portuguese","As they pipe to me, I will dance."
"Portuguese","Better be killed by robbers than by the kick of an ass."
"Portuguese","Brag is a good dog, but Holdfast is better."
"Portuguese","Before you marry reflect, for it is a knot you cannot untie."
"Portuguese","Better mine than ours."
"Portuguese","Better a red face than a black heart."
"Portuguese","Better a sparrow in the hand than two flying."
"Portuguese","Better an ass that carries me than a horse that throws me."
"Portuguese","Better an egg in peace, than an ox in war."
"Portuguese","Another's misfortune does not cure my pain."
"Portuguese","Crows do not peck out crow's eyes."
"Portuguese","Children tell in the highway what they hear by the fireside."
"Portuguese","Children: one is one, two is fun, three is a houseful."
"Portuguese","Choleric men are blind and mad."
"Portuguese","Conceal not your secret from your friend, or you deserve to lose him."
"Portuguese","Concealed goodness is a sort of vice."
"Portuguese","Birds of prey do not flock together."
"Portuguese","Counterfeit coin passes current at night."
"Portuguese","Children married, cares increased."
"Portuguese","Dead men tell no tales."
"Portuguese","Dear is cheap, and cheap is dear."
"Portuguese","Death spares neither Pope nor beggar."
"Portuguese","Death squares all accounts."
"Portuguese","An honest man's word is as good as the king's."
"Portuguese","A good cock was never fat."
"Portuguese","Confess and be hanged."
"Portuguese","Broken friendship may be soldered but can never be made sound."
"Portuguese","Better straw, than nothing."
"Portuguese","Between the hand and the lip the morsel may slip."
"Portuguese","Beware of a door that has many keys."
"Portuguese","Beware of a man that does not talk, and of a dog that does not bark."
"Portuguese","Beware of a pledge that eats."
"Portuguese","Beware of the dog that does not bark."
"Portuguese","Children should be seen and not heard."
"Portuguese","Deeds are love, and not sweet words."
"Portuguese","Children pick up words, as pigeons peas, And utter them again as God shall please."
"Portuguese","Buy your greyhound, don't rear him."
"Portuguese","By going gains the mill, and not by standing still."
"Portuguese","Chairs sink and stools rise."
"Portuguese","Change yourself, and fortune will change with you."
"Portuguese","Chastise the good man, he will grow better; chastise the bad, and he will grow worse."
"Portuguese","Better repair the gutter than the whole house."
"Portuguese","Bite the biter."
"Portuguese","A goose, a woman, and a goat, are bad things lean."
"Portuguese","A good thing is soon caught up."
"Portuguese","A full man is no eater."
"Portuguese","A girl, a vineyard, an orchard, and a bean-field, are hard to watch."
"Portuguese","A good thing is known when it is lost."
"Portuguese","A good word quenches more than a cauldron of water."
"Portuguese","A friend is to be taken with his faults."
"Portuguese","A goose cannot graze after him."
"Portuguese","A finger's length in a sword, and a palm in a lance, are a great advantage."
"Portuguese","A gossiping woman talks of everybody, and everybody of her."
"Portuguese","A great thrust of a lance at a dead Moor."
"Portuguese","A house without either a cat or a dog is the house of a scoundrel."
"Portuguese","A hungry belly hears nobody."
"Portuguese","A hungry wolf is not at rest."
"Portuguese","A little gall spoils much honey."
"Portuguese","A good year is determined by its spring."
"Portuguese","A bustling mother makes a slothful daughter."
"Portuguese","Despise your enemy and you will soon be beaten."
"Portuguese","A bad knife cuts one's finger instead of the stick."
"Portuguese","A barking dog was never a good hunter."
"Portuguese","A barley corn is better than a diamond to a cock."
"Portuguese","A beard lathered is half shaved."
"Portuguese","A friend's fault should be known but not abhorred."
"Portuguese","A beggar's wallet is never full."
"Portuguese","A little leak will sink a great ship."
"Portuguese","A contented ass enjoys a long life."
"Portuguese","A dead man does not speak."
"Portuguese","A dog in the manger, that neither eats nor lets others eat."
"Portuguese","A fast horse does not want the spur."
"Portuguese","A fault confessed is half forgiven."
"Portuguese","A fault confessed is half redressed."
"Portuguese","A beard once washed is half shaven."
"Portuguese","All bite the bitten dog."
"Portuguese","A stout heart breaks ill fortune."
"Portuguese","A well-formed figure needs no cloak."
"Portuguese","A woman and a hen are soon lost through gadding."
"Portuguese","A word and a blow."
"Portuguese","A word and a stone once let go cannot be recalled."
"Portuguese","A little injury dismays, and a great one stills."
"Portuguese","Alas for the son whose father went to heaven."
"Portuguese","A small pack becomes a small pedler."
"Portuguese","All the world loves a lover."
"Portuguese","All the world will beat the man whom fortune buffets."
"Portuguese","An angry man heeds no counsel."
"Portuguese","An empty purse and a new house make a man wise, but too late."
"Portuguese","An empty purse frights away friends."
"Portuguese","An empty purse, and a finished house, make a man wise, but too late."
"Portuguese","A word from the mouth, a stone from the hand."
"Portuguese","A rich widow weeps with one eye and laughs with the other."
"Portuguese","An estate inherited is the less valued."
"Portuguese","A man of straw is better than a woman of gold."
"Portuguese","A morsel eaten gains no friend."
"Portuguese","A pig on credit makes a good winter and a bad spring."
"Portuguese","A poor man is hungry after eating."
"Portuguese","A ragged colt may make a handsome horse."
"Portuguese","A small tear relieves a great sorrow."
"Portuguese","A resolute heart endures no counsel."
"Portuguese","A small spark makes a great fire."
"Portuguese","A rich widow weeps with one eye and signals with the other."
"Portuguese","A seat in the council is honour without profit."
"Portuguese","A servant and a cock must be kept but one year."
"Portuguese","A shut mouth keeps me out of strife."
"Portuguese","A small hatchet fells a great oak."
"Portuguese","A little knowledge is a dangerous thing."
"Portuguese","A rash man, a skin of good wine, and a glass vessel, do not last long."
"Portuguese, Galician","The bad neighbour gives a needle without thread."
"Portuguese, Spanish","God give you luck, my son, for little wit must serve your turn."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Let the guts be full, for it is they that carry the legs."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Whilst the tall maid is stooping, the little one sweeps the house."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Every cask smells of the wine it contains."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Every cloud has a silver lining."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Every hair casts its shadow."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Whilst we drink, prank ourselves, with wenches daily, Old age upon's at unawares doth sally."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Every pedlar praises his own needles."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Good news is rumoured and bad news flies."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Grasp all, lose all."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Grass doesn't grow on a busy street."
"Portuguese, Spanish","He is my friend who grinds at my mill."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Whither goest thou, Misfortune? To where there is more."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Wipe the nose of your neighbour's son, and marry him to your daughter."
"Portuguese, Spanish","He loves well who never forgets."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Every one stretches his legs according to the length of his coverlet."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Grain by grain the hen fills her crop."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Cheat me in the price and not in the goods."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Tell your friend your secret, and he will set his foot on your neck."
"Portuguese, Spanish","She stoops to conquer."
"Portuguese, Spanish","She is well married who has neither mother-in-law nor sister-in-law."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Perseverance kills the game."
"Portuguese, Spanish","One fool makes a hundred."
"Portuguese, Spanish","On a fool's beard all learn to shave."
"Portuguese, Spanish","My gossips don't like me because I tell them truths."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Much never cost little."
"Portuguese, Spanish","The bread eaten, the company departs."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Misers' money goes twice to market."
"Portuguese, Spanish","The bread never falls but on its buttered side."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Marry, and grow tame."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Love and faith are seen in works."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Let me go warm, and folks may laugh."
"Portuguese, Spanish","It is approved alchemy to have an income and spend nothing."
"Portuguese, Spanish","In the long run, the greyhound kills the hare."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Ill weeds are not hurt by frost."
"Portuguese, Spanish","If you would have the dog follow you, give him bread."
"Portuguese, Spanish","He made me mad To see him shine so brisk and smell so sweet."
"Portuguese, Spanish","He made a pit and digged it, and has fallen into the ditch which he made."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Misery loves company."
"Portuguese, Spanish","The sword and the ring according to the hand that bears them."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Walnuts and pears you plant for your heirs."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Walls sink and dunghills rise."
"Portuguese, Spanish","To lather an ass's head is only wasting soap."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Throwing your cap at a bird is not the way to catch it."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Throw that bone to another dog."
"Portuguese, Spanish","They are rich who have friends."
"Portuguese, Spanish","The wrath of brothers is the wrath of devils."
"Portuguese, Spanish","The wolf never wants a pretext against the lamb."
"Portuguese, Spanish","The wolf loses his teeth, but not his inclination."
"Portuguese, Spanish","The archer that shoots badly has a lie ready."
"Portuguese, Spanish","The thief thinks that all are like himself."
"Portuguese, Spanish","What the fool does at last the wise man does at first."
"Portuguese, Spanish","The pitcher that goes often to the well leaves either its handle or its spout there."
"Portuguese, Spanish","The mare's kick does not harm the colt."
"Portuguese, Spanish","The lucky man has a daughter for his first-born."
"Portuguese, Spanish","The hole invites the thief."
"Portuguese, Spanish","The greyhound that starts many hares kills none."
"Portuguese, Spanish","The gardener's dog neither eats greens not lets any one else eat them."
"Portuguese, Spanish","The full-fed sheep is frightened at its own tail."
"Portuguese, Spanish","The dog that kills wolves, is killed by wolves."
"Portuguese, Spanish","The dead and the absent have no friends."
"Portuguese, Spanish","The wolf eats of what is counted."
"Portuguese, Spanish","All are not soldiers who go to the wars."
"Portuguese, Spanish","A capon eight months old is fit for a king's table."
"Portuguese, Spanish","A fair-weather friend changes with the wind."
"Portuguese, Spanish","A long tongue betokens a short hand."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Grasp no more than thy hand will hold."
"Portuguese, Spanish","A looker on sees more of the game than a player."
"Portuguese, Spanish","A sharp tooth for hard bread."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Another's bread costs dear."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Better have a bad ass than be your own ass."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Between smith and smith no money passes."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Between the hand and the mouth the soup is lost."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Bleed him, purge him, and if he dies, bury him."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Blessed are the dead that the rain rains on."
"Portuguese, Spanish","Blessed is he who expects nothing, for he shall never be disappointed."
"Puerto Rican","Calling the devil is not the same as seeing him come."
"Puerto Rican","Sleeping shrimp gets taken by the current."
"Puerto Rican","The monkey knows the tree it climbs."
"Puerto Rican","Always a bridesmaid, never a bride."
"Puerto Rican","Although the monkey might dress in silk, monkey it still is."
"Puerto Rican","When you talk about the sun, you will see her beams."
"Puerto Rican","Love is deed and not fine phrases."
"Puerto Rican","God's greatest act was to make one day follow another."
"Puerto Rican","A good beginning is half the work done."
"Puerto Rican","Although the monkey might dress in silk, monkey it still is."
"Puerto Rican","Always a bridesmaid, never a bride."
"Puerto Rican","Break the leg of a bad habit."
"Puerto Rican","Calling the devil is not the same as seeing him come."
"Puerto Rican","Do not fear a stain that disappears with water."
"Puerto Rican","Eat the bread of the man you hate and also of him you love."
"Puerto Rican","He who excuses himself, accuses himself."
"Puerto Rican","He who lacks ideas makes those of others his own."
"Puerto Rican","He who was born for a small loaf, will never own a big one."
"Puerto Rican","Hurriedness is not necessarily the daughter of foolishness, and delay is not necessarily the daughter of cowardice."
"Puerto Rican","I will do anything except bear the responsibility of guarding a house that has two doors."
"Puerto Rican","You can't kill a dog just to save a cat's tail."
"Puerto Rican","The day after is the student of the day before."
"Puerto Rican","Who gossips to you will gossip of you."
"Puerto Rican","What might not happen in a year might happen in an instant."
"Puerto Rican","There's a risk in every jump."
"Puerto Rican","There is not the thickness of a peso between good and evil."
"Puerto Rican","There is a great distance between said and done."
"Puerto Rican","In the boss's eyes you'll always see ambition."
"Puerto Rican","The monkey knows the tree it climbs."
"Puerto Rican","It is not enough for a man to know how to ride, he must also know how to fall."
"Puerto Rican","The best thing God did was to make one day follow another."
"Puerto Rican","Sleeping shrimp gets taken by the current."
"Puerto Rican","Silk is cut best with old scissors."
"Puerto Rican","Silence was never written down."
"Puerto Rican","Never say no due to pride, or yes due to weakness."
"Puerto Rican","You may light another's candle with your own without loss."
"Puerto Rican","The night forms a cover for sinners."
"Puerto Rican","He who has servants has unavoidable enemies."
"Punjabi","When a rich man's dog died, everyone commiserated. When a poor man lost his mother, no one noticed."
"Punjabi","He was burned, so he ran into the bamboo grove, but the grove caught fire."
"Puritan","Many a man digs his grave with his teeth."
"Puritan","Never let what you don't know disturb your faith in what you do know."
"Puritan","Marry a child of the devil and you're going to have problems with your father-in-law."
"Puritan","Many a man digs his grave with his teeth."
"Puritan","Love rules without a sword and binds without a cord."
"Puritan","Life has become a little less sweet, death a little less bitter, heaven a little more real."
"Puritan","Idle hands are the devil's workshop."
"Puritan","God loveth adverbs."
"Puritan","As you sow, so shall you reap."
"Puritan","A woman is never to have her own will"
"Puritan","Every top stands on its own bottom."
"Pygmy","Happiness can grow from only a little contentment."
"Quaker","Have faith and the way will open."
"Roman","Thou too art mortal."
"Roman","All roads lead to Rome."
"Roman","If you share your friend's crime you make it your own."
"Roman","In wine there is truth."
"Roman","A man who chases two rabbits catches none."
"Roman","That which nourishes me, destroys me."
"Roman","He who gives quickly gives twice."
"Roman","Hunger is a spice for any meal."
"Roman","If you share your friend's crime you make it your own."
"Roman","While there's life, there's hope."
"Roman","Thou too art mortal."
"Roman","In the kingdom of the blind, the one-eyed are kings."
"Roman","One who is ignorant will remain unnoticed."
"Roman","Never give a child a sword."
"Roman","Lovers are lunatics."
"Roman","Fear not a jest. If one throws salt at you, you will not be harmed unless you have sore places."
"Roman","It is the part of a good shepherd to shear his flock, not to skin it."
"Roman","He who gives himself airs of importance, exhibits the credentials of impotence."
"Roman","In wine there is truth."
"Roman","To place yourself under an obligation is to sell your liberty."
"Roman","Beware the man of one book."
"Roman","He who restrains his anger overcomes his greatest enemy."
"Roman","All saint without, all devil within."
"Roman","All roads lead to Rome."
"Roman","A man who chases two rabbits catches none."
"Roman","Either learn or leave."
"Roman, Italian","All saint without, all devil within."
"Roman, Italian","All roads lead to Rome."
"Romanian","Long absent, soon forgotten."
"Romanian","Adversity makes a man wise, not rich."
"Romanian","A bad workman quarrels with his tools."
"Romanian","A barber learns to shave by shaving fools."
"Romanian","A creaking door hangs long on its hinges."
"Romanian","A creaking door hangs longest."
"Romanian","Abundance, like want, ruins many."
"Romanian","Long and lazy, little and loud; fat and fulsome, pretty and proud."
"Romanian","What the heart thinks, the tongue speaks."
"Romanian","What the heart thinks, the tongue speaks."
"Romanian","Under a ragged coat lies wisdom."
"Romanian","There is no going to heaven in a sedan."
"Romanian","The goat must browse where she is tied."
"Romanian","The anvil fears no blows."
"Romanian","One who sits between two chairs may easily fall down."
"Romanian","Knotty timber must have sharp wedges."
"Romanian","Many bring their clothes to church rather than themselves."
"Romanian","An ass is but an ass, though laden with gold."
"Romanian","Eating and scratching want but a beginning."
"Romanian","Knotty timber requires sharp wedges."
"Romanian","Under a ragged coat lies wisdom."
"Romanian","If you wish good advice, consult an old man."
"Romanian","Fortune is made of glass."
"Romanian","Do not put your spoon into the pot which does not boil for you."
"Romanian","Do not cut the bough you are sitting on."
"Romanian","Better a mouse in the pot than no meat at all."
"Romanian","One foot is better than two crutches."
"Romanian","The anvil fears no blows."
"Romanian","When a thing is done, advice comes too late."
"Romanian","Do not put your spoon into the pot which does not boil for you."
"Romanian","Long absent, soon forgotten."
"Romanian","Abundance, like want, ruins many."
"Romanian","Adversity makes a man wise, not rich."
"Romanian","An ass is but an ass, though laden with gold."
"Romanian","Only fools are glad when governments change."
"Romanian","If you wish good advice, consult an old man."
"Romanian","Eating and scratching want but a beginning."
"Romanian","God gives the milk, but not the pail."
"Romanian","Better a mouse in the pot than no meat at all."
"Romanian","Never look a gift horse in the mouth."
"Romanian","No fire, no smoke."
"Romanian","No fine cloth can hide the clown."
"Romanian","No fence against ill fortune."
"Romanian","Night is the mother of counsel."
"Romanian","New things are fair."
"Romanian","Never too old to learn."
"Romanian","No flying from fate."
"Romanian","Never mention rope in the house of a man who has been hanged."
"Romanian","No garden without its weeds."
"Romanian","Never let the sun go down on your anger."
"Romanian","Never judge from appearances."
"Romanian","Never choose your women or your linen by candlelight."
"Romanian","Never buy a pig in a poke."
"Romanian","Never put off till tomorrow what you can do today."
"Romanian","No flying without wings."
"Romanian","No fool to the old fool."
"Romanian","Many are called, but few are chosen."
"Romanian","No man is born into the world, whose work is not born with him."
"Romanian","No man has a lease of his life."
"Romanian","No man cand do two things at once."
"Romanian","No man can serve two masters."
"Romanian","No love like the first love."
"Romanian","No lock will hold against the power of gold."
"Romanian","No larder but hath his mice."
"Romanian","No herb will cure love."
"Romanian","No hair so small but has his shadow."
"Romanian","No man is his craft's master the first day."
"Romanian","Need makes the naked man run and sorrow makes websters spin."
"Romanian","No folly like being in love."
"Romanian","Messengers should neither be headed nor hanged."
"Romanian","Never be weary of well doing."
"Romanian","Measure twice, cut but once."
"Romanian","Men are blind in their own cause."
"Romanian","Men are not angels."
"Romanian","Men are very generous with what costs them nothing."
"Romanian","Measure is treasure."
"Romanian","Men leap over where the hedge is lowest."
"Romanian","Measure for measure."
"Romanian","Mice always return to their own little holes."
"Romanian","Mickle head, little wit."
"Romanian","Might is right."
"Romanian","Mind other men, but most yourself."
"Romanian","Mischief comes by the pound and goes away by the ounce."
"Romanian","Mischief has swift wings."
"Romanian","Men cut large thongs of other men's leather."
"Romanian","Many small make a great."
"Romanian","Many bring their clothes to church rather than themselves."
"Romanian","Many drops make a shower."
"Romanian","Many friends in general, one in special."
"Romanian","Many hands make light work."
"Romanian","Many heroes appear after the war."
"Romanian","Measure thrice what thou buyest; and cut it but once."
"Romanian","Many men have many minds."
"Romanian","Money answers all things."
"Romanian","Many words will not fill a bushel."
"Romanian","Marriages are made in heaven."
"Romanian","Marry your equal."
"Romanian","Marry your like."
"Romanian","Marry your son when you will, your daughter when you can."
"Romanian","Master absent and house dead."
"Romanian","Many kiss the hand they wish cut off."
"Romanian","Nature has given us two ears, two eyes and but one tongue; to the end we should hear and see more than we speak."
"Romanian","Much would have more."
"Romanian","Muzzle not the oxen's mouth."
"Romanian","My chicken is good, but my neighbor's looks better."
"Romanian","My old mare would have a new crupper."
"Romanian","Name not a rope in his house that hanged himself."
"Romanian","Misfortunes never come singly."
"Romanian","Nature does nothing in vain."
"Romanian","Much law, little justice."
"Romanian","Near is my coat, but nearer is my shirt."
"Romanian","Near is my doublet, but nearer is my smock."
"Romanian","Near is my shirt, but nearer is my skin."
"Romanian","Necessity has no law."
"Romanian","Necessity is the mother of invention."
"Romanian","No man is wise at all times."
"Romanian","Narrow gathered, widely spent."
"Romanian","Money opens all doors."
"Romanian","Need makes the old wife trot."
"Romanian","Money commands all."
"Romanian","Money draws money."
"Romanian","Money is round, and rolls away."
"Romanian","Money is the root of all evil."
"Romanian","Money makes money."
"Romanian","Much science, much sorrow."
"Romanian","Money makes the world go round."
"Romanian","Much learning makes men mad."
"Romanian","Money will do anything."
"Romanian","More have repented speech than silence."
"Romanian","More than we use is more than we want."
"Romanian","Mother-in-law and daughter-in-law are a tempest and hail storm."
"Romanian","Much ado about nothing."
"Romanian","Moderation in all things."
"Romanian","Money makes the man."
"Romanian","Our neighbour's ground yields better corn than ours."
"Romanian","No man is content with his lot."
"Romanian","Opportunity makes the thief."
"Romanian","Opportunity never knocks twice at any man's door."
"Romanian","Oppression makes a wise man mad."
"Romanian","Other times, other manners."
"Romanian","Only fools are glad when governments change."
"Romanian","Our neighbour's cow yields more milk than our."
"Romanian","One's own hearth is gowd's worth."
"Romanian","Out of a devil's egg there can only come a devil."
"Romanian","Out of sight, out of mind."
"Romanian","Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh."
"Romanian","Out of the frying-pan into the fire."
"Romanian","Paper endures all."
"Romanian","Pardoning the bad is injuring the good."
"Romanian","Our last garment is made without pockets."
"Romanian","One scabbed sheep will mar a whole flock."
"Romanian","One lie makes many."
"Romanian","One man's breath another's death."
"Romanian","one may become the devil's brother in order to cross the bridge."
"Romanian","One misfortune comes on the neck of another."
"Romanian","One must howl with the wolves."
"Romanian","Only what you have in your hand is not a lie."
"Romanian","One never loses by doing a good turn."
"Romanian","Patience is a virtue."
"Romanian","One short step lengthens life."
"Romanian","One sows and another reaps."
"Romanian","One swallow does not make a summer."
"Romanian","One thing thinks the horse, and another he that saddles him."
"Romanian","One who does not work should not eat."
"Romanian","One who sits between two chairs may easily fall down."
"Romanian","One nail drives out another."
"Romanian","Practice makes perfect."
"Romanian","Poor folks are glad of porridge."
"Romanian","Pour gold on him, and he'll never thrive."
"Romanian","Pouring oil on the fire is not the way to quench it."
"Romanian","Poverty is no sin."
"Romanian","Poverty is no vice but an inconvenience."
"Romanian","Pardons and pleasantness are great revenges of slanders."
"Romanian","Poverty is the mother of all arts."
"Romanian","Play, women, and wine undo men laughing."
"Romanian","Praise a fair day at night."
"Romanian","Praise no man till he is dead."
"Romanian","Praise the hill, but keep below."
"Romanian","Praise the sea, but keep on land."
"Romanian","Praise to the face is open disgrace."
"Romanian","Prettiness dies first."
"Romanian","Poverty is not a shame; but the being ashamed of it is."
"Romanian","Pepper is black and hath a good smack."
"Romanian","One hand washes the other."
"Romanian","Patience overcomes all things."
"Romanian","Patience provoked turns to fury."
"Romanian","Penny and penny laid up will be many."
"Romanian","Penny wise and pound foolish."
"Romanian","Pens may blot, but they cannot blush."
"Romanian","Plough deep, while sluggards sleep; and you shall have corn to sell and keep."
"Romanian","People who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones."
"Romanian","Plenty brings pride."
"Romanian","Perfect love casteth out fear."
"Romanian","Petty thieves are hanged, the great ones go free."
"Romanian","physician, heal thyself."
"Romanian","physicians' faults are covered with earth."
"Romanian","Plant the crab-tree where you will, it will never bear pippins."
"Romanian","Patience is a remedy for every grief."
"Romanian","People sometimes do all the wrong things for all the right reasons."
"Romanian","Nothing so good but it might have been better."
"Romanian","Nothing comes of nothing."
"Romanian","Nothing hurts like the truth."
"Romanian","Nothing is impossible to a willing heart."
"Romanian","Nothing is lost for asking."
"Romanian","Nothing is more changeable than time and a woman."
"Romanian","Of one ill come many."
"Romanian","Nothing so bad in which there is not something of good."
"Romanian","None more bare than the shoemaker's wife and the smith's mare."
"Romanian","Nothing worse than a familiar enemy."
"Romanian","Nought lay down, nought take up."
"Romanian","Nurture passes nature."
"Romanian","Oaks may fall when reeds stand the storm."
"Romanian","Of a small spark a great fire."
"Romanian","One knife whets another."
"Romanian","Nothing so bad but it might have been worse."
"Romanian","No safe wading in an unknown water."
"Romanian","No man ought to look a gift horse in the mouth."
"Romanian","No naked man is sought after to be rifled."
"Romanian","No one but the wearer knows where the shoe pinches."
"Romanian","No pains, no gains."
"Romanian","No pleasure without pain."
"Romanian","No pleasure without repentance."
"Romanian","None so old that he hopes not for a year of life."
"Romanian","No rose without a thorn."
"Romanian","None says his garner is full."
"Romanian","No smoke without fire."
"Romanian","No sooner said than done."
"Romanian","No sweet without some sweat."
"Romanian","No wisdom to silence."
"Romanian","None is born a master."
"Romanian","Of soup and love, the first is the best."
"Romanian","No pride like that of an enriched beggar."
"Romanian","One father is enough to govern one hundred sons, but not a hundred sons one father."
"Romanian","One devil drives out another."
"Romanian","One does not wash one's dirty linen in public."
"Romanian","One does the scathe, and another has the scorn."
"Romanian","One enemy can do more hurt than ten friends can do good."
"Romanian","One enemy is too many; and a hundred friends too few."
"Romanian","Of ill debtors men take oats."
"Romanian","One father can support ten children; ten children cannot support one father."
"Romanian","One and none is all one."
"Romanian","One flower makes no garland."
"Romanian","One foot is better than two crutches."
"Romanian","One generation passeth away, and another generation cometh: but the earth abideth for ever."
"Romanian","One good turn deserves another."
"Romanian","One hand washes another and both the face."
"Romanian","Love understands all languages."
"Romanian","One eyewitness is better than ten hear-so's."
"Romanian","Old men are twice children."
"Romanian","Of two disputants, the warmer is generally in the wrong."
"Romanian","Of two evils choose the least."
"Romanian","Old age is sickness of itself."
"Romanian","Old chains gall less than new."
"Romanian","Old fish and young flesh do feed men best."
"Romanian","Old friends and old wine and old gold are best."
"Romanian","One beats the bush and another catches the birds."
"Romanian","Old men and travellers may lie by authority."
"Romanian","One ass scrubs another."
"Romanian","Old sin makes new shame."
"Romanian","On fat land grow foulest weeds."
"Romanian","Once a thief, always a thief."
"Romanian","Once bitten, twice shy."
"Romanian","One ""Take it"" is more worth than two ""Thou shalt have it""."
"Romanian","One ill turn deserves another."
"Romanian","Old love will not be forgotten."
"Romanian","In the place where the tree falleth, there it shall be."
"Romanian","Love will go through stone walls."
"Romanian","Ill-gotten goods never prosper."
"Romanian","In a house where two daughters live, the cat dies of thirst."
"Romanian","In at one ear and out at the other."
"Romanian","In doing we learn."
"Romanian","In fair weather prepare for foul."
"Romanian","In for a penny, in for a pound."
"Romanian","In many words the truth goes by."
"Romanian","In much corn is some cockle."
"Romanian","In spending lies the advantage."
"Romanian","In the country of the blind the one-eyed man is king."
"Romanian","Ill weeds grow apace."
"Romanian","In the house of a fiddler all fiddle."
"Romanian","Ill news is too often true."
"Romanian","In time of prosperity friends will be plenty; in time of adversity not one amongst twenty."
"Romanian","In trust is treason."
"Romanian","In union is strength."
"Romanian","In vain is the mill-clock if the miller his hearing lack."
"Romanian","In vain the net is spread in the sight of any bird."
"Romanian","In wine there is truth."
"Romanian","Industry is fortune's right hand, and frugality her left."
"Romanian","Iron not used soon rusts."
"Romanian","Iron whets iron."
"Romanian","It chances in an hour, that happens not in seven years."
"Romanian","It is a dangerous fire that begins in the bed straw."
"Romanian","It is a good horse that never stumbles."
"Romanian","In the forehead and the eye, the lecture of the mind doth lie."
"Romanian","If you run after two hares, you will catch neither."
"Romanian","If the old dog barks, he gives counsel."
"Romanian","If the young man would and the old man could, there would be nothing undone."
"Romanian","If thou thyself canst do it, attend no other's help or hand."
"Romanian","If you are already wet, you won't care about the rain."
"Romanian","If you are travelling in the blind man's country close one eye."
"Romanian","If you don't have what you like, then you should like what you have."
"Romanian","If you had all the wit in the world fools would fell you."
"Romanian","If you have no enemies it's a sign fortune has forgot you."
"Romanian","If you lay upon roses when young, you'll lie upon thorns when old."
"Romanian","If you lie down with dogs, you will get up with fleas."
"Romanian","If you lie upon roses when you're young, you'll lie upon thorns when you're old."
"Romanian","Ill weeds wax well."
"Romanian","If you play with fire you get burnt."
"Romanian","It is as natural to be born as to die."
"Romanian","If you want a thing well done, do it yourself."
"Romanian","If you want to sweep the steps clean, start at the top."
"Romanian","If you wish good advice, consult an old man."
"Romanian","If you wish to die young, make your physician your heir."
"Romanian","If you won't work, you shan't eat."
"Romanian","If you would make an enemy, lend a man money, and ask it of him again."
"Romanian","If you would not live to be old, you must be hanged when you are young."
"Romanian","Ill air slays sooner than the sword."
"Romanian","Ill company brings many a man to the gallows."
"Romanian","Ill gotten, ill spent."
"Romanian","Ill luck is good for something."
"Romanian","Ill news comes apace."
"Romanian","If you love the boll, you cannot hate branches."
"Romanian","Keeping is harder than winning."
"Romanian","It is too late to shut the stable-door after the horse has bolted."
"Romanian","It never rains but it pours."
"Romanian","It never troubles a wolf how many the sheep be."
"Romanian","It will be all one a thousand years hence."
"Romanian","It will be all the same a hundred years hence."
"Romanian","It's ill waiting for dead men's shoes."
"Romanian","Jack of all trades and master of none."
"Romanian","Jealousy is cruel as the grave."
"Romanian","Jove laughs at lovers' perjuries."
"Romanian","Judge not, that ye be not judged."
"Romanian","Judge nothing before the time."
"Romanian","It is a sad house where the hen crows louder than the cock."
"Romanian","Keep something for a rainy day."
"Romanian","It is only the dead who do not return."
"Romanian","Kind words go a long way."
"Romanian","Kingdoms divided soon fall."
"Romanian","Kiss the hand that you cannot bite."
"Romanian","Knotty timber must have sharp wedges."
"Romanian","Knotty timber requires sharp wedges."
"Romanian","Know thyself."
"Romanian","Pride goes before a fall."
"Romanian","Knowledge is power."
"Romanian","To promise and give nothing is comfort to a fool."
"Romanian","Knowledge without practice is nothing."
"Romanian","Laugh before breakfast, you'll cry before supper."
"Romanian","Laws go as kings like."
"Romanian","Keep flax from fire and youth from gaming."
"Romanian","It is ill putting a sword in a madman's hand."
"Romanian","If the doctor cures, the sun sees it; but if he kills, the earth hides it."
"Romanian","It is better to give than to receive."
"Romanian","It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than it is for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven."
"Romanian","It is easier to descend than to ascend."
"Romanian","It is easier to forgive than to forget."
"Romanian","It is easier to pull Down than to build."
"Romanian","It is easy to be wise after the event."
"Romanian","It is easy to find a stick to beat a dog."
"Romanian","It is good fishing in troubled waters."
"Romanian","It is good to strike the serpent's head with your enemy's hand."
"Romanian","It is hard for a greedy eye to have a leal heart."
"Romanian","It is hard to break a hog of an ill custom."
"Romanian","It is the first step that is difficult."
"Romanian","It is ill fishing before the net."
"Romanian","It is sometimes good to hold a candle to the devil."
"Romanian","It is meet that a man be at his own bridal."
"Romanian","It is never long that comes at last."
"Romanian","It is not good praising a ford till a man be over."
"Romanian","It is not good that the man should be alone."
"Romanian","It is not lost that comes at last."
"Romanian","It is not the beard that makes the philosopher."
"Romanian","It is not the gay coat that makes the gentleman."
"Romanian","It is not what is he, but what has he."
"Romanian","It is not wise to open old wounds."
"Romanian","It is not with saying honey, Honey, that sweetness will come into the mouth."
"Romanian","It is only at the tree loaded with fruit that people throw stones."
"Romanian","It is an ill bird that fouls its own nest."
"Romanian","It is idle to swallow the cow and choke on the tail."
"Romanian","Long and lazy, little and loud; fat and fulsome, pretty and proud."
"Romanian","Love is blind, but marriage finds a cure."
"Romanian","Love is a sweet torment."
"Romanian","Love does much, money does everything."
"Romanian","Love covers many infirmities."
"Romanian","Love covers many faults."
"Romanian","Love cannot be compelled."
"Romanian","Love and a cough cannot be hid."
"Romanian","Lookers-on see more than players."
"Romanian","Look to thyself when thy neighbour's house is on fire."
"Romanian","Look not a gift horse in the mouth."
"Romanian","Look first at the mother and then the daughter."
"Romanian","Like will to like."
"Romanian","Long jesting was never good."
"Romanian","Love is not found in the market."
"Romanian","Long absent, soon forgotten."
"Romanian","Live, horse, and you'll get grass."
"Romanian","Live and let live."
"Romanian","Live and learn."
"Romanian","Little thieves are hanged, but great ones escape."
"Romanian","Little strokes fell great oaks."
"Romanian","Little cares speak, great ones are dumb."
"Romanian","Little and often fills the purse."
"Romanian","Listeners never hear any good of themselves."
"Romanian","Listen with your ears, look with your eyes, but keep silent with your mouth."
"Romanian","Lip-honour costs little, yet may bring in much."
"Romanian","If the mountain will not come to Mahomet, Mahomet must go to the mountain."
"Romanian","Long ways, long lies."
"Romanian","Lying and thieving go together."
"Romanian","Many a slip between the cup and the lip."
"Romanian","Many a one for land takes a fool by the hand."
"Romanian","Many a little makes a mickle."
"Romanian","Man proposes, God disposes."
"Romanian","Man cannot live by bread alone."
"Romanian","Make yourself all honey and the flies will devour you."
"Romanian","Make your enemy your friend."
"Romanian","Make not a balk of good ground."
"Romanian","Make new friends but keep the old."
"Romanian","Make me a diviner and I will make thee rich."
"Romanian","Make hay while the sun shines."
"Romanian","Make ample provision for old age."
"Romanian","Love is full of trouble."
"Romanian","Make a pact with the devil until you have crossed the bridge."
"Romanian","Love is never without jealousy."
"Romanian","Love your friend with his fault."
"Romanian","Love will find a way."
"Romanian","Lawsuits consume time, and money, and rest, and friends."
"Romanian","Love thy neighbour as thyself."
"Romanian","Love me, love my dog."
"Romanian","Love makes all hearts gentle."
"Romanian","Love lasts as long as money endures."
"Romanian","Love is without reason."
"Romanian","Love is the fruit of idleness."
"Romanian","Love is sweet in the beginning but sour in the ending."
"Romanian","Love is strong as death."
"Romanian","Like tree, like fruit."
"Romanian","Make a virtue of necessity."
"Romanian","Idle people have the least leisure."
"Romanian","Hope often deludes the foolish man."
"Romanian","Hunger drives the wolf out of the woods."
"Romanian","Hunger finds no fault with the cookery."
"Romanian","Hunger goes in a straight line, desire turns in circles."
"Romanian","Hunger is the best sauce."
"Romanian","Hunger makes hard beans sweet."
"Romanian","Hungry flies bite sore."
"Romanian","husband, don't believe what you see, but what I tell you."
"Romanian","I cannot be your friend and your flatterer too."
"Romanian","I gave the mouse a hole and she is become my heir."
"Romanian","I proud and thou proud, who shall bear the ashes out?"
"Romanian","Like wood, like arrow."
"Romanian","I today, you tomorrow."
"Romanian","Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth."
"Romanian","Idleness is the key of poverty."
"Romanian","Idleness is the key to poverty."
"Romanian","Idleness is the mother of all vice."
"Romanian","If an ass goes a-traveling, he'll not come home a horse."
"Romanian","If better were within, better would come out."
"Romanian","If every man would sweep his own doorstep the city would soon be clean."
"Romanian","If more people say you're wrong, don't insist saying you're right."
"Romanian","If my aunt had been a man, she'd have been my uncle."
"Romanian","If my shirt knew my design I'd burn it."
"Romanian","If the adder could hear, and the blindworm could see, neither man nor beast would ever go free."
"Romanian","If the beard were all, the goat might preach."
"Romanian","Many a true word is spoken in jest."
"Romanian","I scratch where it itches not."
"Romanian","Let the dead bury their dead."
"Romanian","Like the gardener's dog, that neither eats cabbages himself, nor lets anybody else."
"Romanian","Like saint, like offering."
"Romanian","Like question, like answer."
"Romanian","Like prince, like people."
"Romanian","Like mother, like daughter."
"Romanian","Like master, like man."
"Romanian","Like king, like people."
"Romanian","Like father, like son; like mother like daughter."
"Romanian","Like father, like son."
"Romanian","Like cures like."
"Romanian","Lightly gained, quickly lost."
"Romanian","Life is a battle."
"Romanian","Hope maketh not ashamed."
"Romanian","Liars have need of good memories."
"Romanian","Hope deferred maketh the heart sick."
"Romanian","Let the cobbler stick to his last."
"Romanian","Let sleeping dogs lie."
"Romanian","Let me look at your house and I'll tell you who you are."
"Romanian","Let him that owns the cow, take her by the tail."
"Romanian","Let every pedlar carry his own burden."
"Romanian","Let an ill man lie in thy straw, and he looks to be thy heir."
"Romanian","Lend your money and lose your friend."
"Romanian","Leave a jest when it pleases lest it turn to earnest."
"Romanian","Learn wisdom by the follies of others."
"Romanian","Learn weeping, and you shall gain laughing."
"Romanian","Lay up against a rainy day."
"Romanian","If the lion's skin cannot the fox's shall."
"Romanian","Lies have short legs."
"Romanian","Walls have ears."
"Romanian","To make a snare for another and fall into it oneself."
"Romanian","What does a donkey know about the life of a nightingale?"
"Romanian","Well begun is half done."
"Romanian","Welcome evil if thou comest alone."
"Romanian","We soon believe what we desire."
"Romanian","We never know the worth of water till the well is dry."
"Romanian","We must live by the quick, not by the dead."
"Romanian","We must live by the living, not by the dead."
"Romanian","We don't kill a pig every day."
"Romanian","We carry our neighbours' failings in sight; we throw our own crimes over our shoulders."
"Romanian","Water flows, rocks remain."
"Romanian","What is bred in the bone will not out of the flesh."
"Romanian","War is death's feast."
"Romanian","What is done by night appears by day."
"Romanian","Virtue is its own reward."
"Romanian","Virtue is a jewel of great price."
"Romanian","Vanity of vanities, all is vanity."
"Romanian","Use the means, and God will give the blessing."
"Romanian","Use makes mastery."
"Romanian","Union is strength."
"Romanian","Under a ragged coat lies wisdom."
"Romanian","Two sparrows on one ear of corn make an ill agreement."
"Romanian","Two of a trade seldom agree."
"Romanian","Two may keep counsel if one be away."
"Romanian","Two eyes can see more than one."
"Romanian","Two dogs to one bone, may never accord in one."
"Romanian","Water afar off quenches not fire."
"Romanian","When a liar speaks the truth, he is sick."
"Romanian","When sorrow is asleep, wake it not."
"Romanian","When poverty comes in at the door, love flies out of the window."
"Romanian","When need is highest, God's help is nighest."
"Romanian","When men take wives they stop fearing hell."
"Romanian","When in rome, do as the Romans do."
"Romanian","When god will punish, he will first take away the understanding."
"Romanian","When fortune knocks, open the door."
"Romanian","When drink is in, wit is out."
"Romanian","When an ass kicks you, never tell it."
"Romanian","When an ass climbs a ladder, we may find wisdom in women."
"Romanian","When all men say you are an ass, it is time to bray."
"Romanian","What god hath joined together, let not man put asunder."
"Romanian","When a thing is done, advice comes too late."
"Romanian","Two bigs will not go in one bag."
"Romanian","When a knave is in a plum-tree, he has neither friend nor kin."
"Romanian","Whatever happens, all happens as it should."
"Romanian","What's yours is mine, and what's mine is my own."
"Romanian","What's done cannot be undone."
"Romanian","What youth is used to, age remembers."
"Romanian","What we first learn we best know."
"Romanian","What the kings wills, that the law wills."
"Romanian","What the heart thinks, the tongue speaks."
"Romanian","What the eye doesn't see, the heart doesn't grieve over."
"Romanian","What soberness conceals, drunkenness reveals."
"Romanian","What must be, must be."
"Romanian","What is got over the devil's back is spent under his belly."
"Romanian","When adam delved and Eve span, who was then the gentleman?"
"Romanian","Time shall teach thee all things."
"Romanian","Honour is the reward of virtue."
"Romanian","To make a mountain out of a molehill."
"Romanian","To hunt for a hare with a tabor."
"Romanian","To go to heaven in a featherbed."
"Romanian","To cut large shives of another's loaf."
"Romanian","To cry with one eye, and laugh with the other."
"Romanian","To catch a hare with a tabor."
"Romanian","To cast pearls before swine."
"Romanian","Times change and we with them."
"Romanian","time, as he grows old, teaches many lessons."
"Romanian","Time works wonders."
"Romanian","Two dogs strive for a bone, and a third runs away with it."
"Romanian","Time tries truth."
"Romanian","To rob Peter to pay Paul."
"Romanian","Time lost cannot be won again."
"Romanian","Time is the father of truth."
"Romanian","Time is money."
"Romanian","Time is a great healer."
"Romanian","Time is a file that wears and makes no noise."
"Romanian","Time flies."
"Romanian","Time discloses all things."
"Romanian","Time devours all things."
"Romanian","Time cures all things."
"Romanian","Time and straw make medlars ripe."
"Romanian","Throw out a sprat to catch a mackerel."
"Romanian","Throw good to your left and right, and you'll find it when you'll need it."
"Romanian","Time will tell."
"Romanian","Too much hope deceives."
"Romanian","When the fox preaches then beware your geese."
"Romanian","Truth will out."
"Romanian","Truth needs not many words."
"Romanian","Truth may be blamed, but cannot be shamed."
"Romanian","Truth is time's daughter."
"Romanian","Truth is mighty and will prevail."
"Romanian","Truth has a scratched face."
"Romanian","Truth finds foes, where it makes none."
"Romanian","Truth and oil are ever above."
"Romanian","Trust not a horse's heel, nor a dog's tooth."
"Romanian","Tread on a worm and it will turn."
"Romanian","Treachery will come home to the traitor."
"Romanian","To nourish a snake in one's bosom."
"Romanian","Too much laughter discovers folly."
"Romanian","If the ball does not stick to the wall, it will at least leave a mark."
"Romanian","Too much honey cloys the stomach."
"Romanian","Too many cooks spoil the broth."
"Romanian","Too hasty burned his lips."
"Romanian","Tongue breaks bone and herself has none."
"Romanian","Today a man, tomorrow none."
"Romanian","To think that larks will fall into one's mouth ready roasted."
"Romanian","To the pure all things are pure."
"Romanian","To the grave a pall, and that's all."
"Romanian","To take counsel of one's pillow."
"Romanian","To strain at a gnat and swallow a camel."
"Romanian","To set the wolf to keep the sheep."
"Romanian","Two blacks do not make a white."
"Romanian","Trade is the mother of money."
"Romanian","Without ceres and Bacchus, Venus grows cold."
"Romanian","Work today, for you know not how much you may be hindered tomorrow."
"Romanian","Words fly, writings remain."
"Romanian","Words cut more than swords."
"Romanian","Words are but wind."
"Romanian","Words and feathers the wind carries away."
"Romanian","Women have long skirts and short minds."
"Romanian","Women are the devil's nets."
"Romanian","Women are as wavering as the wind."
"Romanian","Women are as changeable as the wind."
"Romanian","Woeful is the household that wants a woman."
"Romanian","Woe to thee, o land, when thy King is a child."
"Romanian","Whom God will help, none can hinder."
"Romanian","Without other people's companionship, even paradise would be an unlikable place."
"Romanian","Years know more than books."
"Romanian","With time and art the leaf of the mulberry-tree becomes satin."
"Romanian","With God all things are possible."
"Romanian","Wise men learn by other men's harms; fools, by their own."
"Romanian","Wise men have their mouth in their heart, fools their heart in their mouth."
"Romanian","Wisdom is better than strength."
"Romanian","Winter will ask you what you did during the summer."
"Romanian","Wine makes glad the heart of man."
"Romanian","Wine is a turncoat."
"Romanian","Wine is a turncoat, first a friend, then an enemy."
"Romanian","Whoso learneth young forgets not when he is old."
"Romanian","Whom the lord loveth, he chasteneth."
"Romanian","When the candles are out, all women are fair."
"Romanian","Woe to him that is alone."
"Romanian","You cannot make a silk purse of a sow's ear."
"Romanian","Youth will have its course."
"Romanian","Your wife's eyes are in your purse."
"Romanian","You will catch more flies with a spoonful of honey than with a gallon of vinegar."
"Romanian","You never miss the water till the well runs dry."
"Romanian","You must not teach fish to swim."
"Romanian","You must ask your neighbour if you shall live in peace."
"Romanian","You make a job and you screwed it up in the end."
"Romanian","You look for the horse you ride on."
"Romanian","You go to an ass for wool."
"Romanian","You don't go into a tavern to say your prayers."
"Romanian","You cannot teach an old dog new tricks."
"Romanian","You cannot serve god and Mammon."
"Romanian","Wrong laws make short governance."
"Romanian","You cannot say A without saying B."
"Romanian","Ye know not what shall be on the tomorrow."
"Romanian","You cannot lose what you never had."
"Romanian","You cannot have your cake and eat it."
"Romanian","You cannot get blood from a stone."
"Romanian","You cannot catch old birds with chaff."
"Romanian","You can't please everyone."
"Romanian","You can take a horse to the water, but you can't make him drink."
"Romanian","You can see a mote in another's eye, but cannot see a beam in your own."
"Romanian","You can have too much of a good thing."
"Romanian","You cackle often, but never lay an egg."
"Romanian","You are like the man that sought his mare, and he riding on her."
"Romanian","Yesterday will not be called again."
"Romanian","Whom god loves, his bitch brings forth pigs."
"Romanian","You cannot see the wood for the trees."
"Romanian","When you are at Rome, do as the Romans do."
"Romanian","Where there are women and geese, there wants no noise."
"Romanian","Where there are reeds, there is water."
"Romanian","Where the sun enters, the doctor does not."
"Romanian","Where the hedge is lowest, men may soonest over."
"Romanian","Where the dam leaps over, the kid follows."
"Romanian","Where the carcase is, there shall the eagles be gathered together."
"Romanian","Where nothing is, the king must lose his right."
"Romanian","Where is well with me, there is my country."
"Romanian","Where gold speaks every tongue is silent."
"Romanian","Where God has sown it shall flourish."
"Romanian","Where every man is master the world goes to wreck."
"Romanian","Whom god will help, nothing does harm."
"Romanian","When you spit against the wind you get a dirty beard."
"Romanian","Where we least think, there goeth the hare away."
"Romanian","When you are an anvil, hold you still; when you are a hammer, strike your fill."
"Romanian","When thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth."
"Romanian","When the wine is in, the wit is out."
"Romanian","When the tree is fallen every one runs to it with his axe."
"Romanian","When the pig is proffered, hold up the poke."
"Romanian","When the pear is ripe, it falls."
"Romanian","When the night's darkest, the dawn's nearest."
"Romanian","When the house is burned down, you bring water."
"Romanian","When the head does not work, the legs suffer."
"Romanian","When the head aches all the body is the worse."
"Romanian","When the fox preaches, look to the geese."
"Romanian","Three may keep counsel if two be away."
"Romanian","Where every hand fleeceth, the sheep goes naked."
"Romanian","Who hath no horse may ride on a staff."
"Romanian","Whom fortune wishes to destroy, she first makes mad."
"Romanian","Whom a serpent has bitten, a lizard alarms."
"Romanian","Who will not keep a penny, never shall have many."
"Romanian","Who will in time present pleasure refrain, shall in time to come the more pleasure obtain."
"Romanian","Who will eat the kernel of the nut must break the shell."
"Romanian","Who spits against the wind, it falls in his face."
"Romanian","Who says A must say B."
"Romanian","Who repairs not his gutter repairs his whole house."
"Romanian","Who remove stones bruise their fingers."
"Romanian","Who receives a gift sells his liberty."
"Romanian","Who pardons the bad, injures the good."
"Romanian","Who more than he is worth doth spend, he makes a rope his life to end."
"Romanian","Where there is no honour, there is no grief."
"Romanian","Who keeps company with the wolf will learn to howl."
"Romanian","Where there's a will, there's a way."
"Romanian","Who has skirts of straw needs fear the fire."
"Romanian","Who has not understanding, let him have legs."
"Romanian","Who has neither fools nor beggars nor whores among his kindred, was born of a stroke of thunder."
"Romanian","Who goes to bed supperless, all night tumbles and tosses."
"Romanian","Who depends upon another man's table often dines late."
"Romanian","Who chatters to you will chatter of you."
"Romanian","While there is life, there is hope."
"Romanian","While the grass grows, the horse starves."
"Romanian","Whether the pitcher strikes the stone, or the stone the pitcher, it is bad for the pitcher."
"Romanian","Where your will is ready, your feet are light."
"Romanian","Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also."
"Romanian","When the cat's away, the mice will play."
"Romanian","Who lives by hope will die by hunger."
"Romanian","So many heads, so many minds."
"Romanian","Spare well and have well."
"Romanian","Spare the rod and spoil the child."
"Romanian","Spare at the spigot, and let it out at the bung-hole."
"Romanian","Sow thin and mow thin."
"Romanian","Sorrow treads upon the heels of mirth."
"Romanian","Sorrow for a husband is like a pain in the elbow, sharp and short."
"Romanian","Something is better than nothing."
"Romanian","Something impossible, something it will never happen."
"Romanian","Some people may have reasons unknown to you for doing certain things."
"Romanian","Soft pace goes far."
"Romanian","Sodom apples outwardly fair, ashes at the core."
"Romanian","Silence is often the best answer."
"Romanian","So many men, so many opinions."
"Romanian","Speech is silver, but silence is golden."
"Romanian","So many countries, so many customs."
"Romanian","So long as you don't step on a snail's tail, he won't get up and bite you."
"Romanian","So got, so gone."
"Romanian","Snake in the grass."
"Romanian","Small tree trunks can make the cart turn over."
"Romanian","Small sorrows speak; great ones are silent."
"Romanian","Slow but sure."
"Romanian","sloth, like rust, consumes faster than labour wears."
"Romanian","Sleep is the image of death."
"Romanian","Sleep is the brother of death."
"Romanian","Slander leaves a score behind it."
"Romanian","Tastes differ."
"Romanian","So many servants, so many enemies."
"Romanian","Strike while the iron is hot."
"Romanian","Three women and a goose make a market."
"Romanian","Talk of the wolf, and his tail appears."
"Romanian","Talk of the devil, and he is bound to appear."
"Romanian","Take the chestnuts out of the fire with the cat's paw."
"Romanian","Take the bit and the buffet with it."
"Romanian","Take no more on you than you're able to bear."
"Romanian","Take heed of reconciled enemies and of meat twice boiled."
"Romanian","Take care of the pence, and the pounds will take care of themselves."
"Romanian","Take an ox by its horns, a man by his heart."
"Romanian","Sweep before your own door."
"Romanian","Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof."
"Romanian","Suffer and expect."
"Romanian","Sparing is the first gaining."
"Romanian","Stuff today and starve tomorrow."
"Romanian","Speak fitly, or be silent wisely."
"Romanian","Stretch your arm no further than your sleeve will reach."
"Romanian","Stones will remain for ever while water passes."
"Romanian","Stolen waters are sweet."
"Romanian","Stolen pleasures are sweet."
"Romanian","Stolen fruit is sweet."
"Romanian","Still waters run deep."
"Romanian","Step after step the ladder is ascended."
"Romanian","Stars are not seen where the sun shines."
"Romanian","Standing pools gather filth."
"Romanian","Standers-by see more than gamesters."
"Romanian","Spice is black, but it has a sweet smack."
"Romanian","Silence is golden."
"Romanian","Such bird, such egg."
"Romanian","Quietness is best."
"Romanian","Riches have wings."
"Romanian","Riches bring care and fears."
"Romanian","Rich man may dine when he will, the poor man when he may."
"Romanian","Rich folk have many friends."
"Romanian","Repentance comes too late."
"Romanian","Render unto caesar the things which are Caesar's."
"Romanian","Remember thou art but a man."
"Romanian","Refuse a wife with one fault, and take one with two."
"Romanian","Red hair; devil's hair."
"Romanian","Rats desert a sinking ship."
"Romanian","Rats desert a falling house."
"Romanian","Silence means consent."
"Romanian","Rage is without reason."
"Romanian","Sadness and gladness succeed each other."
"Romanian","Quietness is a great treasure."
"Romanian","Quick believers need broad shoulders."
"Romanian","Put not your trust in princes."
"Romanian","Put not thy hand between the bark and the tree."
"Romanian","Put not an embroidered crupper on an ass."
"Romanian","Puff not against the wind."
"Romanian","Provision in season makes a rich house."
"Romanian","Prosperity makes friends, adversity tries them."
"Romanian","Prosperity makes freinds, adversity tries them."
"Romanian","Prosperity lets go the bridle."
"Romanian","Promise is debt."
"Romanian","Procrastination is the thief of time."
"Romanian","Rain before seven; fine before eleven."
"Romanian","Second thoughts are best."
"Romanian","Silence gives consent."
"Romanian","Silence does seldom harm."
"Romanian","Shrouds have no pocket."
"Romanian","Show me a liar, and I will show you a thief."
"Romanian","Short reckonings make long friends."
"Romanian","Short pleasure, long pain."
"Romanian","Short love, long sighs."
"Romanian","Short folk are soon angry."
"Romanian","Set a cow to catch a hare."
"Romanian","Set a beggar on horseback, and he'll ride to the Devil."
"Romanian","Self-praise is no recommendation."
"Romanian","Self do, self have."
"Romanian","Rome was not built in a day."
"Romanian","Seeing is believing."
"Romanian","Rust eats up iron."
"Romanian","Scratch where it itches."
"Romanian","Scatter with one hand, gather with two."
"Romanian","Scald not your lips in another man's pottage."
"Romanian","Scabbed horse cannot abide the comb."
"Romanian","Saying is one thing, and doing another."
"Romanian","Saying and doing are two things."
"Romanian","Say nothing of the dead but what is good."
"Romanian","Save us from our friends."
"Romanian","Save a thief from the gallows and he will help to hang you."
"Romanian","Salt water and absence wash away love."
"Romanian","Salt seasons all things."
"Romanian","Teaching others teacheth yourself."
"Romanian","Seldom seen, soon forgotten."
"Romanian","The father buys, the son bigs, the grandchild sells, and his son begs."
"Romanian","The gods send nuts to those who have no teeth."
"Romanian","The goat must browse where she is tied."
"Romanian","The game is not worth the candle."
"Romanian","The frying-pan said to the kettle, ""Avaunt, black brows!"""
"Romanian","The fox may grow grey, but never good."
"Romanian","The fox knows much, but more he that catcheth him."
"Romanian","The fly that plays too long in the candle, singes his wings at last."
"Romanian","The fly has her spleen and the ant her gall."
"Romanian","The flock follow the bell-wether."
"Romanian","The fish always stinks from the head downwards."
"Romanian","The first faults are theirs that commit them, the second theirs that permit them."
"Romanian","The end justifies the means."
"Romanian","The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge."
"Romanian","The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence."
"Romanian","The fated will happen."
"Romanian","The fairest rose at last is withered."
"Romanian","The face is the index of the mind."
"Romanian","The eyes have one language everywhere."
"Romanian","The eye of the master does more work than both his hands."
"Romanian","The eye lets in love."
"Romanian","The eye is the mirror of the soul."
"Romanian","The eye is bigger than the belly."
"Romanian","The exception proves the rule."
"Romanian","The evils we bring on ourselves are the hardest to bear."
"Romanian","The end of passion is the beginning of repentance."
"Romanian","Tall men had ever very empty heads."
"Romanian","The faulty stands on his guard."
"Romanian","They need much whom nothing will content."
"Romanian","Pride goes before, and shame follows."
"Romanian","Thoughts be free from toll."
"Romanian","Thought is free."
"Romanian","Though thou hast never so many counsellors, yet do not forsake the counsel of thy own soul."
"Romanian","Though old and wise, yet still advise."
"Romanian","Though a lie be well dressed, it is ever overcome."
"Romanian","Thou art a bitter bird, said the raven to the starling."
"Romanian","Those that eat cherries with great persons shall have their eyes squirted out with the stones."
"Romanian","Think on the end before you begin."
"Romanian","They that sow the wind shall reap the whirlwind."
"Romanian","They that have got good store of butter may lay it thick on their bread."
"Romanian","They that be whole need not a physician, but they that are sick."
"Romanian","The good mother says not, Will you? but gives."
"Romanian","They say so is half a lie."
"Romanian","The grapes are sour."
"Romanian","They must hunger in frost that will not work in heat."
"Romanian","They have most bread who have least teeth."
"Romanian","They brag most that can do least."
"Romanian","There's none so deaf as those who will not hear."
"Romanian","There's none so blind as those who will not see."
"Romanian","There's no physician like a true friend."
"Romanian","There's no great loss without some gain."
"Romanian","There would be no great ones if there were no little ones."
"Romanian","The greatest wealth is contentment with a little."
"Romanian","The greatest talkers are the least doers."
"Romanian","The greatest hate springs from the greatest love."
"Romanian","The end crowns the work."
"Romanian","They shall beat their swords into ploughshares."
"Romanian","The best wine is that a body drinks of another man's cost."
"Romanian","The cat would eat fish and would not wet her feet."
"Romanian","The cat is hungry when a crust contents her."
"Romanian","The cask savours of the first fill."
"Romanian","The camel going to seek horns, lost his ears."
"Romanian","The buyer needs a hundred eyes, the seller but one."
"Romanian","The butcher looked for his knife and it was in his mouth."
"Romanian","The braying of an ass does not reach heaven."
"Romanian","The brains don't lie in the beard."
"Romanian","The borrower is servant to the lender."
"Romanian","The blessing of having many children has never broken a man's roof."
"Romanian","The bird loves her nest."
"Romanian","The end makes all equal."
"Romanian","The better-natured, the sooner undone."
"Romanian","The child says nothing, but what it heard by the fire."
"Romanian","The best things come in small packages."
"Romanian","The best parents are both purses for money and sacks for the corn."
"Romanian","The best cart may overthrow."
"Romanian","The belly wants ears."
"Romanian","The beggar may sing before the thief."
"Romanian","The back door robs the house."
"Romanian","The ass loaded with gold still eats thistles."
"Romanian","The anvil fears no blows."
"Romanian","The absent are always in the wrong."
"Romanian","That which is crooked cannot be made straight."
"Romanian","That that comes of a cat will catch mice."
"Romanian","Tell me with whom thou goest, and I'll tell thee what thou doest."
"Romanian","The bird is known by his note, the man by his words."
"Romanian","The cunning wife makes her husband her apron."
"Romanian","The earthen pot must keep clear of the brass kettle."
"Romanian","The early bird catches the worm."
"Romanian","The eagle does not catch flies."
"Romanian","The doctor is often more to be feared than the disease."
"Romanian","The die is cast."
"Romanian","The devil's meal is all bran."
"Romanian","The devil was sick, the devil a monk would be; the devil was well, the devil a monk was he."
"Romanian","The devil lurks behind the cross."
"Romanian","The devil loves no holy water."
"Romanian","The devil knows many things because he is old."
"Romanian","The devil is not so black as he is painted."
"Romanian","The devil gives even rich men presents."
"Romanian","The chain is no stronger than its weakest link."
"Romanian","The danger past and God forgotten."
"Romanian","The charitable give out at the door, and God puts in at the window."
"Romanian","The cuckold is the last that knows of it."
"Romanian","The crow thinks her own birds fairest."
"Romanian","The cross on his breast and the devil in his heart."
"Romanian","The cowl does not make the monk."
"Romanian","The cow gives a good pail of milk and then kicks it over."
"Romanian","The covetous spends more than the liberal."
"Romanian","The course of true love never did run smooth."
"Romanian","The counsel thou wouldst have another keep, first keep it thyself."
"Romanian","The common horse is worst shod."
"Romanian","The comforter's head never aches."
"Romanian","The coat makes the man."
"Romanian","Three things drive a man out of his house - smoke, rain and a scolding wife."
"Romanian","The death of the wolves is the safety of the sheep."
"Romanian","Abundance, like want, ruins many."
"Romanian","A hired horse tired never."
"Romanian","After meat, mustard."
"Romanian","After joy comes annoy."
"Romanian","After dinner, mustard."
"Romanian","After death the doctor."
"Romanian","After black clouds, clear weather."
"Romanian","After a thrifty father, a prodigal son."
"Romanian","After a storm comes a calm."
"Romanian","After a great getter comes a great spender."
"Romanian","Adversity makes a man wise, not rich."
"Romanian","Admonish your friends in private, praise them in public."
"Romanian","After the work is done, repose is sweet."
"Romanian","Acorns were good till bread was found."
"Romanian","After your fling, watch for the sting."
"Romanian","Absence sharpens love, presence strengthens it."
"Romanian","Absence makes the heart grow fonder."
"Romanian","A word to a wise man is enough."
"Romanian","A word and a stone let go cannot be called back."
"Romanian","A woman, a dog, and a walnut tree, the more you beat them the better they be."
"Romanian","A woman's tongue is a double edged knife."
"Romanian","A woman's advice is no great thing, but he who won't take it is a fool."
"Romanian","A woman is flax, man is fire, the devil comes and blows the bellows."
"Romanian","A wolf in sheep's clothing."
"Romanian","A wise head makes a close mouth."
"Romanian","A white wall is a fool's paper."
"Romanian","A tree is known by its fruit."
"Romanian","Actions speak louder than words."
"Romanian","All that glitters is not gold."
"Romanian","An ape's an ape, a varlet's a varlet, though they be clad in silk or scarlet."
"Romanian","Always taking Out of the meal-tub, and never putting in, soon comes to the bottom."
"Romanian","Although the sun shine, leave not thy cloak at home."
"Romanian","Alms never make poor."
"Romanian","Almost and very nigh saves many a lie."
"Romanian","All's well that ends well."
"Romanian","All's alike at the latter day: a bag of gold and wisp of hay."
"Romanian","All truths are not to be told."
"Romanian","All things come to those who wait."
"Romanian","All things are possible with god."
"Romanian","All they that take the sword shall perish with the sword."
"Romanian","After pleasure comes pain."
"Romanian","All that lives must die."
"Romanian","A thief passes for a gentleman when stealing has made him rich."
"Romanian","All rivers run into the sea."
"Romanian","All men are mortal."
"Romanian","All men are free of other men's goods."
"Romanian","All meats to be eaten, and all maids to be wed."
"Romanian","All is not lost that is delayed."
"Romanian","All his geese are swans."
"Romanian","All covet, all lose."
"Romanian","All cats are grey in the dark."
"Romanian","All are of the dust, and all turn to dust again."
"Romanian","All are not saints that go to church."
"Romanian","All are not merry that dance lightly."
"Romanian","All are not hunters that blow the horn."
"Romanian","All that shakes falls not."
"Romanian","A long tongue is a sign of a short hand."
"Romanian","A near neighbour is better than a far-dwelling kinsman."
"Romanian","A mouse in time may bite in two a cable."
"Romanian","A man's praise in his own mouth stinks."
"Romanian","A man's hat in his hand, never did him any harm."
"Romanian","A man without money is no man at all."
"Romanian","A man without money is a bow without an arrow."
"Romanian","A man without a wife is but half a man."
"Romanian","A man of straw is worth a woman of gold."
"Romanian","A man is known by the company he keeps."
"Romanian","A man cannot give what he hasn't got."
"Romanian","A man can die but once."
"Romanian","A traveller may lie with authority."
"Romanian","A lord without riches is a soldier without arms."
"Romanian","A penny saved is a penny gained."
"Romanian","A living dog is better than a dead lion."
"Romanian","A little stone in the way overturns a great wain."
"Romanian","A little fire burns up a great deal of corn."
"Romanian","A little body often harbours a great soul."
"Romanian","A liar is not believed when he speaks the truth."
"Romanian","A lean agreement is better than a fat judgment."
"Romanian","A lawyer's opinion is worth nothing unless paid for."
"Romanian","A husband must be deaf and the wife blind to have quietness."
"Romanian","A horse, a wife, and a sword may be shewed, but not lent."
"Romanian","A horse that will not carry a saddle must have no oats."
"Romanian","A horse may stumble that has four legs."
"Romanian","Blab is wist and out it must."
"Romanian","A low hedge is easily leaped over."
"Romanian","A scalded dog fears cold water."
"Romanian","An arrow shot upright falls on the shooter's head."
"Romanian","A thief knows a thief as a wolf knows a wolf."
"Romanian","A tent without a woman is like a violin with no strings."
"Romanian","A stitch in time saves nine."
"Romanian","A staff is quickly found to beat a dog."
"Romanian","A spaniel, a woman, and a walnut-tree, the more they're beaten the better they be."
"Romanian","A sound mind in a sound body."
"Romanian","A soft answer turneth away wrath."
"Romanian","A small leak will sink a great ship."
"Romanian","A sluggard takes an hundred steps because he would not take one in due time."
"Romanian","A sleeping man is not hungry."
"Romanian","A secret is too little for one, enough for two, too much for three."
"Romanian","A new broom sweeps clean."
"Romanian","A second marriage is like a warmed-up meal."
"Romanian","A penny at a pinch is worth a pound."
"Romanian","A scalded cat fears cold water."
"Romanian","A running horse needs no spur."
"Romanian","A rolling stone gathers no moss."
"Romanian","A red beard and a black head, catch him with a good trick and take him dead."
"Romanian","A ragged colt may make a good horse."
"Romanian","A prophet is not without honour save in his own country."
"Romanian","A prophet has no honour in his own country."
"Romanian","A poor man's tale cannot be heard."
"Romanian","A poor man wants some things, a covetous man all things."
"Romanian","A poor man has no friends."
"Romanian","A piece of churchyard fits everybody."
"Romanian","A threefold cord is not quickly broken."
"Romanian","A secret foe gives a sudden blow."
"Romanian","Better a bare foot than none."
"Romanian","Better be the head of the yeomanry than the tail of the gentry."
"Romanian","Better be the head of an ass than the tail of a lion."
"Romanian","Better be the head of a pike than the tail of a sturgeon."
"Romanian","Better be the head of a dog than the tail of a lion."
"Romanian","Better be first in a village than second at Rome."
"Romanian","Better be envied than pitied."
"Romanian","Better be alone than in bad company."
"Romanian","Better an ugly duckling from your own village than a beauty from foreign parts."
"Romanian","Better an open enemy than a false friend."
"Romanian","Better an egg today, than an ox tomorrow."
"Romanian","Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow."
"Romanian","Beads about the neck and the devil in the heart."
"Romanian","Better a healthy donkey than a consumptive philosopher."
"Romanian","Better bend than break."
"Romanian","Best to bend while it is a twig."
"Romanian","Believe nothing of what you hear, and only half of what you see."
"Romanian","Believe no tales from an enemy's tongue."
"Romanian","Before you marry, be sure of a house, wherein to tarry."
"Romanian","Before you make a friend, eat a bushel of salt with him."
"Romanian","Before you find God, you will be eaten by saints."
"Romanian","Bees that have honey in their mouths have stings in their tails."
"Romanian","Beauty without wisdom is like a flower in the mud."
"Romanian","Beauty is but a blossom."
"Romanian","Beauty fades like a flower."
"Romanian","Beauty carries its dower in its face."
"Romanian","An apple never falls far from the tree."
"Romanian","Better a mouse in the pot than no meat at all."
"Romanian","Better some of a pudding than none of a pie."
"Romanian","Birds of a feather flock together."
"Romanian","Big fish eat little fish."
"Romanian","Beware of him whom god hath marked."
"Romanian","Beware of false prophets."
"Romanian","Beware of a silent dog and still water."
"Romanian","Between two stools one falls to the ground."
"Romanian","Between two brothers two witness and a notary."
"Romanian","Between the hand and the lip the morsel may slip."
"Romanian","Between the hammer and the anvil."
"Romanian","Between promising and performing a man may marry his daughter."
"Romanian","Better wear out shoes than sheets."
"Romanian","Better unborn than untaught."
"Romanian","Better beg than steal."
"Romanian","Better spare at brim than at bottom."
"Romanian","Better belly burst than good meat lost."
"Romanian","Better ride on an ass that carries me than a horse that throws me."
"Romanian","Better never to begin than never to make an end."
"Romanian","Better master one than engage with ten."
"Romanian","Better leave than lack."
"Romanian","Better late than never."
"Romanian","Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof."
"Romanian","Better is a neighbour that is near than a brother far off."
"Romanian","Better go to bed supperless than to rise in debt."
"Romanian","Better give the wool than the sheep."
"Romanian","Better die with honour than live with shame."
"Romanian","Better children weep than old men."
"Romanian","Be ye therefore wise as serpents, and harmless as doves."
"Romanian","Better the foot slip than the tongue."
"Romanian","An idle youth, a needy age."
"Romanian","And with what measure you meet, it shall be measured to you again."
"Romanian","An unbidden guest knows not where to sit."
"Romanian","An ox is taken by the horns, and a man by the tongue."
"Romanian","An ounce of fortune is worth a pound of forecast."
"Romanian","An open door may tempt a saint."
"Romanian","An old ox makes a straight furrow."
"Romanian","An old fox needs learn no craft."
"Romanian","An old fox is not easily snared."
"Romanian","An old ensign is a captain's honour."
"Romanian","An old dog barks not in vain."
"Romanian","An occasion lost cannot be redeemed."
"Romanian","Bear and forbear."
"Romanian","An ill turn is soon done."
"Romanian","Appearances are deceptive."
"Romanian","An idle person is the devil's cushion."
"Romanian","An hour in the morning is worth two in the evening."
"Romanian","An honest man's word is as good as his bond."
"Romanian","An handful of trade is an handful of gold."
"Romanian","An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth."
"Romanian","An englishman's home is his castle."
"Romanian","An empty sack cannot stand upright."
"Romanian","An ass must be tied where the master will have him."
"Romanian","An ass is but an ass, though laden with gold."
"Romanian","An ass in a lion's skin."
"Romanian","An ass endures his burden, but not more than his burden."
"Romanian","A hair of the dog that bit you."
"Romanian","An oak is not felled at one stroke."
"Romanian","As you bake, so shall you eat."
"Romanian","Be what you would seem to be."
"Romanian","Be still, and have thy will."
"Romanian","Be not idle, and you shall not be longing."
"Romanian","Be not a baker if your head be of butter."
"Romanian","Bad news travels fast."
"Romanian","Bad news has wings."
"Romanian","Bacchus hath drowned more men than Neptune."
"Romanian","At open doors dogs come in."
"Romanian","At length the fox turns monk."
"Romanian","At length the fox is brought to the furrier."
"Romanian","ask, and it shall be given you."
"Romanian","Ask much to have a little."
"Romanian","Anger cannot stand without a strong hand."
"Romanian","As you make your bed, so you must lie on it."
"Romanian","Anger is a short madness."
"Romanian","As they brew, so let them drink."
"Romanian","As the work, so the pay."
"Romanian","As soon as a man is born he begins to die."
"Romanian","As long as I am rich reputed, with solemn voice I am saluted."
"Romanian","As a tree falls, so shall it lie."
"Romanian","As a man sinneth, so is his punishment."
"Romanian","Art is long and life is short."
"Romanian","Art improves nature."
"Romanian","Art has no enemy but ignorance."
"Romanian","April rains for men; May, for beasts."
"Romanian","Appetite comes with eating."
"Romanian","An army of stags led by a lion would be more formidable than one of lions led by a stag."
"Romanian","As you sow, so you reap."
"Romanian","The pitcher goes so often to the well that it is broken at last."
"Romanian","A honey tongue, a heart of gall."
"Romanian","The mouse that has but one hole is quickly taken."
"Romanian","The Muses love the morning."
"Romanian","The nearer the bone, the sweeter the flesh."
"Romanian","The nearer the church, the farther from God."
"Romanian","The needle is small, but it sews expensive garments."
"Romanian","The night comes when no man can work."
"Romanian","The noblest vengeance is to forgive."
"Romanian","The old dog doesn't bark without reason."
"Romanian","The one who makes little bad things, can as easyly do big bad things."
"Romanian","The parson always christens his own child first."
"Romanian","The morning hour has gold in its mouth."
"Romanian","The person taking legal action often gives up an ox to win a cat."
"Romanian","The more you stir a turd, the worse it stinks."
"Romanian","The pleasures of the mighty are the tears of the poor."
"Romanian","The plough gets not well if the ploughman hold it not."
"Romanian","The poor man is aye put to the worst."
"Romanian","The poor man turns his cake and another comes and takes it away."
"Romanian","The poor man's shilling is but a penny."
"Romanian","The post of honour is the post of danger."
"Romanian","The pot calls the kettle black."
"Romanian","The prayers of the wicked won't prevail."
"Romanian","The race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong."
"Romanian","The reasons of the poor weigh not."
"Romanian","The receiver is as bad as the thief."
"Romanian","The remedy may be worse than the disease."
"Romanian","The peacock hath fair feathers, but foul feet."
"Romanian","The master's eye makes the horse fat."
"Romanian","The letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life."
"Romanian","The lion is known by his claws."
"Romanian","The lion won't turn on a barking puppy."
"Romanian","The lion's share."
"Romanian","The lone sheep is in danger of the wolf."
"Romanian","The longest way round is the shortest way home."
"Romanian","The looking glass is the enemy of ugly women."
"Romanian","The loser is always laughed at."
"Romanian","The love of money is the root of all evil."
"Romanian","The luck of idle men sits next to them."
"Romanian","The man of many trades begs his bread on Sunday."
"Romanian","The mountains have brought forth a mouse."
"Romanian","The master is the one who turns the servant into a thief."
"Romanian","The rotten apple injures its neighbours."
"Romanian","The master's footsteps fattens the soil, and his foot the ground."
"Romanian","The mean is the best."
"Romanian","The meek will inherit the earth."
"Romanian","The middle way of measure is ever golden."
"Romanian","The mills of God grind slowly, yet they grind exceeding small."
"Romanian","The miser is always in want."
"Romanian","The moon does not heed the barking of dogs."
"Romanian","The moon is not seen where the sun shines."
"Romanian","The more cost, the more honour."
"Romanian","The more haste, the less speed."
"Romanian","The more one drinks, the more one may."
"Romanian","The more you get, the more you want."
"Romanian","The man who takes legal action often loses an ox to win a cat."
"Romanian","There is great force hidden in a sweet command."
"Romanian","There are black sheep in every flock."
"Romanian","There are more men threatened than stricken."
"Romanian","There are no birds of this year in last year's nests."
"Romanian","There is a limit to everything."
"Romanian","There is a limit to one's patience."
"Romanian","There is a measure in all things."
"Romanian","There is a remedy for everything but death."
"Romanian","There is a scorpion under every stone."
"Romanian","There is a time for everything."
"Romanian","There is a time to be born, and a time to die."
"Romanian","There is a time to love, and a time to hate."
"Romanian","The rich man makes mistakes and the poor men get the blame."
"Romanian","There is a time to weep, and a time to laugh."
"Romanian","The world is a ladder for some to go up and some down."
"Romanian","There is no accounting for tastes."
"Romanian","There is no companion like the penny."
"Romanian","There is no going to heaven in a sedan."
"Romanian","There is no good accord where every man would be a lord."
"Romanian","There is no little enemy."
"Romanian","There is no place like home."
"Romanian","There is no remedy for fear."
"Romanian","There is no wise response to a foolish remark."
"Romanian","There is not so bad a gill, but there's as bad a Will."
"Romanian","There is nothing new under the sun."
"Romanian","There is nothing worse than an old lover."
"Romanian","There is truth in wine."
"Romanian","There is a time to speak, and a time to be silent."
"Romanian","The thread breaks where it is weakest."
"Romanian","The last shall be the first."
"Romanian","The sharper the storm, the sooner it's over."
"Romanian","The sign invites you in, but your money redeem you out."
"Romanian","The sleeping fox catches no poultry."
"Romanian","The sleepy fox has seldom feathered breakfasts."
"Romanian","The slothful man is the beggar's brother."
"Romanian","The smoke of a man's own house is better than the fire of another's."
"Romanian","The snake bites the tamer first."
"Romanian","The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak."
"Romanian","The sun does not shine on both sides of the hedge at once."
"Romanian","The sun shines upon all alike."
"Romanian","The tailor that makes not a knot loses a stitch."
"Romanian","The worst wheel of a cart creaks most."
"Romanian","The thief who isn't caught is an honest salesman."
"Romanian","The worst hog often gets the best pear."
"Romanian","The tongue ever turns to the aching tooth."
"Romanian","The tongue is not steel, yet it cuts."
"Romanian","The tongue talks at the head's cost."
"Romanian","The tree makes shafts for axes."
"Romanian","The vine brings forth three grapes: the first of pleasure, the second of drunkenness, the third of sorrow."
"Romanian","The voice of the people is the voice of God."
"Romanian","The voice of the people, the voice of God."
"Romanian","The wolf may lose his teeth, but never his nature."
"Romanian","The wolf preys farthest from his home."
"Romanian","The work shows the workman."
"Romanian","The workman is known by his work."
"Romanian","The road to hell is paved with good intentions."
"Romanian","The thief does fear each bush an officer."
"Romanian","A drowning man will clutch at a straw."
"Romanian","A fool may give a wise man counsel."
"Romanian","A fool may ask more questions in an hour than a wise man can answer in seven years."
"Romanian","A fool believes everything."
"Romanian","A fool and his money are soon parted."
"Romanian","A fly follows the honey."
"Romanian","A flatterer's throat is an open sepulchre."
"Romanian","A fault confessed is half redressed."
"Romanian","A fat kitchen is near to poverty."
"Romanian","A faithful friend is hard to find, remember man and keep in mind."
"Romanian","A fair woman without virtue is like palled wine."
"Romanian","A fair wife and a frontier castle breed quarrels."
"Romanian","Honey is sweet, but the bee stings."
"Romanian","A fair day in winter is the mother of a storm."
"Romanian","A fool's tongue is long enough to cut his own throat."
"Romanian","A dog may die from too much walking, but a fool dies from worrying about someone else's business."
"Romanian","A disease known is half cured."
"Romanian","A crow is never the whiter for washing herself often."
"Romanian","A creaking door hangs longest."
"Romanian","A creaking door hangs long on its hinges."
"Romanian","A creaking cart goes long on the wheels."
"Romanian","A cracked bell can never sound well."
"Romanian","A crabbed knot must have a crabbed wedge."
"Romanian","A covetous man serves his riches, not they him."
"Romanian","A covetous man does nothing that he should till he dies."
"Romanian","A contented mind is a continual feast."
"Romanian","The law is good, if a man use it lawfully."
"Romanian","A fair face, foul heart."
"Romanian","A good deed is never lost."
"Romanian","A guilty conscience feels continual fear."
"Romanian","A great talker is a great liar."
"Romanian","A great ship asks for deep waters."
"Romanian","A great ship asks deep waters."
"Romanian","A good wife's a goodly prize, saith Solomon the wise."
"Romanian","A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit."
"Romanian","A good shepherd must fleece his sheep, not flay them."
"Romanian","A good neighbour, a good morrow."
"Romanian","A good name is better than riches."
"Romanian","A good name is better than gold."
"Romanian","A good marksman may miss."
"Romanian","A good horse should be seldom spurred."
"Romanian","A fool may throw a stone into a well, which a hundred wise men cannot pull out."
"Romanian","A good friend is a treasure."
"Romanian","A fool's bolt is soon shot."
"Romanian","A good conscience is a soft pillow."
"Romanian","A good bestill is worth a groat."
"Romanian","A good beginning makes a good ending."
"Romanian","A good bee will not go to a drooping flower."
"Romanian","A golden key can open any door."
"Romanian","A gift much expected is paid, not given."
"Romanian","A friend in the market is better than money in the chest."
"Romanian","A friend in need is a friend indeed."
"Romanian","A friend in a way is better than a penny in the purse."
"Romanian","A forgetful head makes a weary pair of heels."
"Romanian","A foreigner scratches you where you do not itch."
"Romanian","A close mouth catches no flies."
"Romanian","A good friend is my nearest relation."
"Romanian","The husband is the head of the wife."
"Romanian","The hasty bitch brings forth blind whelps."
"Romanian","The head grey, and no brains yet."
"Romanian","The heart's letter is read in the eye."
"Romanian","The heart's mirth does make the face fair."
"Romanian","The hen that cackles in the evening lays no eggs in the morning."
"Romanian","The herringman hates the fisherman."
"Romanian","The highest tree hath the greatest fall."
"Romanian","The highway is never about."
"Romanian","The horse that draws most is most whipped."
"Romanian","The horse thinks one thing and he that rides him another."
"Romanian","The house is burning and Grandma is combing her hair."
"Romanian","A constant guest is never welcome."
"Romanian","The husband is always the last to know."
"Romanian","'Tis a sorry ass that will not bear his own burden."
"Romanian","The inequity of life."
"Romanian","The joy of the heart makes the face fair."
"Romanian","The just shall live by faith."
"Romanian","The kettle calls the pot black-brows."
"Romanian","The kick of the dam hurts not the colt."
"Romanian","The kiln calls the oven burnt-heart."
"Romanian","The king is dead. Long live the King."
"Romanian","The labourer is worthy of his hire."
"Romanian","The lame tongue gets nothing."
"Romanian","The lamp is not burning for those asleep."
"Romanian","The last drop makes the cup run over."
"Romanian","A cock is bold on his own dunghill."
"Romanian","The hurt man writes with steel on a marble stone."
"Romanian","A bird in your hand is worth two in the bush."
"Romanian","If the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch."
"Romanian","A chip off the old block."
"Romanian","A child may have too much of his mother's blessing."
"Romanian","A cat in gloves catches no mice."
"Romanian","A cat has nine lives."
"Romanian","A candle lights others and consumes itself."
"Romanian","A burnt child dreads the fire."
"Romanian","A broken friendship may be soldered, but will never be sound."
"Romanian","A bow long bent at last waxes weak."
"Romanian","A boisterous horse must have a rough bridle."
"Romanian","A blind man will not thank you for a looking glass."
"Romanian","A blind man may sometimes hit the mark."
"Romanian","The hare starts when a man least expects it."
"Romanian","A black hen lays a white egg."
"Romanian","The hare always returns to her form."
"Romanian","A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush."
"Romanian","A bellyful is a bellyful, whether it be meat or drink."
"Romanian","A belly full of gluttony will never study willingly."
"Romanian","A beggar's purse is bottomless."
"Romanian","A bean in liberty is better than a comfit in prison."
"Romanian","A barking dog never bites."
"Romanian","A barber learns to shave by shaving fools."
"Romanian","A bald head is soon shaven."
"Romanian","A bad workman quarrels with his tools."
"Romanian","A bad woman is worse than a bad man."
"Romanian","A bad beginning, a bad ending."
"Romanian","The law grows of sin, and chastises it."
"Romanian","A blate cat makes a proud mouse."
"Romanian","He is unworthy of life that causes not life in another."
"Romanian","From the same wood you can make a cross or a club."
"Romanian","He that cannot obey cannot command."
"Romanian","He that cannot beat the ass beats the saddle."
"Romanian","He that cannot ask, cannot live."
"Romanian","He that cannot abide a bad market deserves not a good one."
"Romanian","He that blows in the dust fills his eyes with it."
"Romanian","He that asks faintly begs a denial."
"Romanian","He struck at Tib, but down fell Tom."
"Romanian","He sets the fox to keep his geese."
"Romanian","He lives long that lives well."
"Romanian","He laughs best who laughs last."
"Romanian","He that comes of a hen must scrape."
"Romanian","He is wise that is rich."
"Romanian","He that commits a fault thinks everyone speaks of it."
"Romanian","He is rich enough that wants nothing."
"Romanian","He is not poor that has little, but he that desires much."
"Romanian","He is not fit to command others that cannot command himself."
"Romanian","He is like a swine, he'll never do good while he lives."
"Romanian","He is afraid of his own shadow."
"Romanian","He is a fool."
"Romanian","He hath enough who is contented with little."
"Romanian","He has two stomachs to eat and one to work."
"Romanian","He has need rise betimes that would please everybody."
"Romanian","He gives twice who gives quickly."
"Romanian","He dwells far from neighbours that is fain to praise himself."
"Romanian","He didn't learn anything."
"Romanian","He knows best what good is that has endured evil."
"Romanian","He that fights with silver arms is sure to overcome."
"Romanian","He that has but four and spends five, has no need of a purse."
"Romanian","He that has been bitten by a serpent is afraid of a rope."
"Romanian","He that has an ill name is half hanged."
"Romanian","He that has a white horse and a fair wife never wants trouble."
"Romanian","He that has a house of glass must not throw stones at another."
"Romanian","He that has a head of wax must not walk in the sun."
"Romanian","He that has a head of glass must not throw stones at another."
"Romanian","He that has a full purse never wanted a friend."
"Romanian","He that handles thorns shall prick his fingers."
"Romanian","He that goes softly goes safely."
"Romanian","He that goes barefoot must not plant thorns."
"Romanian","He that comes last to the pot is soonest wroth."
"Romanian","He that forecasts all perils will never sail the sea."
"Romanian","He changes a fly into an elephant."
"Romanian","He that fights and runs away, may live to fight another day."
"Romanian","He that fears leaves, let him not go into the wood."
"Romanian","He that fears every grass must not walk in a meadow."
"Romanian","He that endureth to the end shall be saved."
"Romanian","He that endures is not overcome."
"Romanian","He that eats least, eats most."
"Romanian","He that dwells next door to a cripple will learn to halt."
"Romanian","He that doth amiss may do well."
"Romanian","He that does ill hates the light."
"Romanian","He that died half a year ago is as dead as Adam."
"Romanian","He that deceives me once, shame fall him; if he deceives me twice, shame fall me."
"Romanian","He that counts all costs will never put plough in the earth."
"Romanian","He that goes a-borrowing, goes a-sorrowing."
"Romanian","God defend me from my friends; from my enemies I can defend myself."
"Romanian","Good to begin well, better to end well."
"Romanian","Good things come to some when they are asleep."
"Romanian","Good land, evil way."
"Romanian","Good is good, but better carries it."
"Romanian","Good broth may be made in an old pot."
"Romanian","Good and quickly seldom meet."
"Romanian","Gold is tried in the fire."
"Romanian","God's mill grinds slow but sure."
"Romanian","God stays long, but strikes at last."
"Romanian","God sends meat and the devil sends cooks."
"Romanian","God helps those who help themselves."
"Romanian","He deserves not the sweet that will not taste the sour."
"Romanian","God gives the milk, but not the pail."
"Romanian","Good wine needs no bush."
"Romanian","Gloves hide the ugliest hands."
"Romanian","Giving much to the poor doth enrich a man's store."
"Romanian","Give the piper a penny to play and two pence to leave off."
"Romanian","Give neither counsel nor salt till you are asked for it."
"Romanian","Give him an inch, and he'll take an ell."
"Romanian","Give a man luck and cast him into the sea."
"Romanian","Give a clown your finger, and he will take your hand."
"Romanian","Gifts blind the eyes."
"Romanian","Gentle is that gentle does."
"Romanian","gaming, women and wine, while they laugh, they make men pine."
"Romanian","Full of courtesy, full of craft."
"Romanian","From word to deed is a great space."
"Romanian","God hath leaden feet, but iron hands."
"Romanian","Great promises and small performances."
"Romanian","He that has no honey in his pot, let him have it in his mouth."
"Romanian","He cannot see the wood for the trees."
"Romanian","He can ill be a master that never was a scholar."
"Romanian","He came safe from the East Indies, and was drowned in the Thames."
"Romanian","He bellows like a bull, but is as weak as a bulrush."
"Romanian","Hatred stirreth up strife."
"Romanian","Hasty climbers have sudden falls."
"Romanian","Haste makes waste."
"Romanian","Hares may pull dead lions by the beard."
"Romanian","Hard with hard makes not the stone wall."
"Romanian","Hard is for any man all faults to mend."
"Romanian","Hand play, churls' play."
"Romanian","Good ware makes quick markets."
"Romanian","Great talkers are great liars."
"Romanian","Good watch prevents misfortune."
"Romanian","Great honours are great burdens."
"Romanian","Great braggers, little doers."
"Romanian","Great boast and small roast makes unsavory mouths."
"Romanian","Great birth is a very poor dish at table."
"Romanian","Grass grows not upon the highway."
"Romanian","Grain by grain, and the hen fills her belly."
"Romanian","Goslings lead the geese to water."
"Romanian","Goose and gander and gosling are three sounds but one thing."
"Romanian","Good words fill not a sack."
"Romanian","Good words cool more than cold water."
"Romanian","Good words anoint us, and ill do unjoint us."
"Romanian","He covers me with his wings, and bites me with his bill."
"Romanian","Half a word is enough for a wise man."
"Romanian","He that would learn to pray, let him go to sea."
"Romanian","He who has not seen seville has not seen a wonder."
"Romanian","He who has ears to hear, let him hear."
"Romanian","He who has an art has everywhere a part."
"Romanian","He who greases his wheels helps his oxen."
"Romanian","He who gives a duck, expects a goose."
"Romanian","He who excuses himself, accuses himself."
"Romanian","He who digs a pit for others falls in himself."
"Romanian","He who commences many things finishes but few."
"Romanian","He who comes uncalled sits unserved."
"Romanian","He who builds by the roadside has many masters."
"Romanian","He thinks that roasted larks will fall into his mouth."
"Romanian","He that waits upon another's trencher, makes many a little dinner."
"Romanian","He that would live in peace and rest, must hear, and see, and say the best."
"Romanian","He who laughs last, laughs longest."
"Romanian","He that would hang his dog gives out first that he is mad."
"Romanian","He that would eat the fruit must climb the tree."
"Romanian","He that will swear will lie."
"Romanian","He that will steal an egg will steal an ox."
"Romanian","He that will steal a pin will steal a better thing."
"Romanian","He that will not work shall not eat."
"Romanian","He that will not when he may, when he will he shall have nay."
"Romanian","He that will not be counselled cannot be helped."
"Romanian","He that will lie will steal."
"Romanian","He that will enter into paradise must have a good key."
"Romanian","He that will eat the kernel must crack the nut."
"Romanian","He that has done ill once will do it again."
"Romanian","He that would the daughter win must with the mother first begin."
"Romanian","Hear and see and say nothing."
"Romanian","A clear sky fears not the thunder."
"Romanian","Blind men should judge no colors."
"Romanian","Honey is not for the ass's mouth."
"Romanian","Honey catches more flies than vinegar."
"Romanian","Honesty may be dear bought, but can never be an ill pennyworth."
"Romanian","Hold fast when you have."
"Romanian","Hoist your sail when the wind is fair."
"Romanian","His heart is in his mouth."
"Romanian","His belly cries cupboard."
"Romanian","Here today and gone tomorrow."
"Romanian","Help you to salt, help you to sorrow."
"Romanian","Hell is paved with good intentions."
"Romanian","He who has plenty of pepper will pepper his cabbage."
"Romanian","Hear much, speak little."
"Romanian","He who is afraid of death, loses his life."
"Romanian","Hear all, see all, say nowt."
"Romanian","Health is better than wealth."
"Romanian","He would fall on his back and break his nose."
"Romanian","He whose belly is full believes not him who is fasting."
"Romanian","He who wants to talk with the dogs must learn to bark."
"Romanian","He who wants a mule without a fault, must walk on foot."
"Romanian","He who trusteth not is not deceived."
"Romanian","He who swells in prosperity will shrink in adversity."
"Romanian","He who says what he likes shall hear what he does not like."
"Romanian","He who pays his debts begins to make a stock."
"Romanian","He who lives by the sword dies by the sword."
"Romanian","He that waits for dead men's shoes may go long enough barefoot."
"Romanian","Hell and destruction are never full."
"Romanian","He that is angry is seldom at ease."
"Romanian","He that labours and thrives spins gold."
"Romanian","He that labors and thrives spins gold."
"Romanian","He that knows nothing doubts nothing."
"Romanian","He that killeth a man when he is drunk must be hanged when he is sober."
"Romanian","He that keeps another man's dog shall have nothing left him but the line."
"Romanian","He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it."
"Romanian","He that is once born, once must die."
"Romanian","He that is not with me is against me."
"Romanian","He that is long giving knows not how to give."
"Romanian","He that is fed at another's hand may stay long ere he be full."
"Romanian","He that is born to be hanged shall never be drowned."
"Romanian","He that washes an ass's head loses both his lye and his labour."
"Romanian","He that is angry without a cause shall be pleased without amends."
"Romanian","He that makes himself a sheep shall be eaten by the wolf."
"Romanian","He that is a blab is a scab."
"Romanian","He that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow."
"Romanian","He that hurts another hurts himself."
"Romanian","He that hath pity upon the poor lendeth unto the Lord."
"Romanian","He that has to do with what is foul never comes away clean."
"Romanian","He that has time and looks for time, loses time."
"Romanian","He that has shipped the devil must make the best of him."
"Romanian","He that has plenty of good shall have more."
"Romanian","He that has nothing need fear to lose nothing."
"Romanian","He that has not silver in his purse should have silk on his tongue."
"Romanian","He that has no money needs no purse."
"Romanian","He that leaves the highway to cut short, commonly goes about."
"Romanian","He that is born a fool is never cured."
"Romanian","He that runs fast will not run long."
"Romanian","He that travels far knows much."
"Romanian","He that touches pitch shall be defiled."
"Romanian","He that too much embraceth holds little."
"Romanian","He that takes the raven for his guide will light on carrion."
"Romanian","He that strikes with the sword shall be stricken with the scabbard."
"Romanian","He that speaks the thing he should not hears the thing he would not."
"Romanian","He that speaks sows and he that holds his peace gathers."
"Romanian","He that sows thistles shall reap prickles."
"Romanian","He that soweth good seed shall reap good corn."
"Romanian","He that sings on Friday will weep on Sunday."
"Romanian","He that serves at the altar ought to live by the altar."
"Romanian","He that seeks trouble, never misses."
"Romanian","He that learns a trade has a purchase made."
"Romanian","He that runs into danger must expect to perish therein."
"Romanian","He that lies upon the ground can fall no lower."
"Romanian","He that repairs not a part, builds all."
"Romanian","He that reckons without his host must reckon twice."
"Romanian","He that promises too much means nothing."
"Romanian","He that praises himself spatters himself."
"Romanian","He that once deceives is ever suspected."
"Romanian","He that nothing questions, nothing learns."
"Romanian","He that never rode never fell."
"Romanian","He that mocks a cripple, ought to be whole."
"Romanian","He that mischief hatches, mischief catches."
"Romanian","He that measures oil shall anoint his fingers."
"Romanian","He that marries late, marries ill."
"Romanian","He that has money has what he wants."
"Romanian","He that seeks finds."
"Romanian","Do as you may if you can't do as you would."
"Romanian","Do well and have well."
"Romanian","Do unto others as you would they should do unto you."
"Romanian","Do right and fear no man."
"Romanian","Do not throw pearls to swine."
"Romanian","Do not spur a free horse."
"Romanian","Do not rake up old grievances."
"Romanian","Do not put your spoon into the pot which does not boil for you."
"Romanian","Do not offer salt or brains."
"Romanian","Do not look at the coat, but at what is under the coat."
"Romanian","Do not cut the bough you are sitting on."
"Romanian","Do not count your chickens before they are hatched."
"Romanian","deeds, not words."
"Romanian","Do as you would be done by."
"Romanian","Dogs wag their tails, not so much in love to you as to your bread."
"Romanian","Do as the friar says, not as he does."
"Romanian","Do as I say, not as I do."
"Romanian","Divide and rule."
"Romanian","Distrust is the mother of safety."
"Romanian","Disgraces are like cherries, one draws another."
"Romanian","Diseases come on horseback, but go away on foot."
"Romanian","Dirty water will quench fire."
"Romanian","Dirty linen should be washed at home."
"Romanian","Did you ever hear an ass play on a harp?"
"Romanian","Dicing, drabbing and drinking bring men to destruction."
"Romanian","Diamond cut diamond."
"Romanian","Empty sacks will never stand upright."
"Romanian","Do not all you can; spend not all you have; believe not all you hear; and tell not all you know."
"Romanian","Dumb men get no land."
"Romanian","Either by might or by sleight."
"Romanian","Eavesdroppers never hear any good of themselves."
"Romanian","Eating and scratching want but a beginning."
"Romanian","Eaten bread is soon forgotten."
"Romanian","Eat to live, not live to eat."
"Romanian","Eat till you sweat and work till you freeze."
"Romanian","Eat at pleasure, drink by measure."
"Romanian","Easy come, easy go."
"Romanian","Easier said than done."
"Romanian","Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise."
"Romanian","Early risers travel farther."
"Romanian","Eagles don't catch flies."
"Romanian","Dog does not eat dog."
"Romanian","Each bird loves to hear himself sing."
"Romanian","Dogs bark, but the caravan goes on."
"Romanian","Dry bread is better with love than a fat capon with fear."
"Romanian","Dry bread at home is better than roast meat abroad."
"Romanian","Drunkards and fools cannot lie."
"Romanian","Don't try to sell pumpkins to a gardener."
"Romanian","Don't throw your blanket in the fire just because it has one flea in it."
"Romanian","Don't sell the bear's skin before you have caught him."
"Romanian","Don't put the cart before the horse."
"Romanian","Don't listen to every word you hear."
"Romanian","Don't judge every one by your own measure."
"Romanian","Don't cross the bridge till you come to it."
"Romanian","Don't be a hypocrite."
"Romanian","Deeds are males, and words are females."
"Romanian","Eagles do not breed doves."
"Romanian","By doing nothing we learn to do ill."
"Romanian","Children when they are little make parents fools, when they are great they make them mad."
"Romanian","Children are poor men's riches."
"Romanian","Children and fools tell the truth."
"Romanian","Charity covers a multitude of sins."
"Romanian","Charity begins at home."
"Romanian","Catch not at the shadow and lose the substance."
"Romanian","Cast no dirt into the well that hath given you water."
"Romanian","Care and diligence bring luck."
"Romanian","Call the bear uncle till you are safe across the bridge."
"Romanian","Call the bear 'uncle' till you are safe across the bridge."
"Romanian","Call no man happy till he dies."
"Romanian","Desperate diseases must have desperate remedies."
"Romanian","By ignorance we mistake, and by mistakes we learn."
"Romanian","Christmas in mud, Easter in snow."
"Romanian","Business is business."
"Romanian","Bush natural; more hair than wit."
"Romanian","Burn not your house to fright the mouse away."
"Romanian","Building and marrying of children are great wasters."
"Romanian","Breed up a crow and he will tear out your eyes."
"Romanian","Boys will be boys."
"Romanian","Bound is he that gifts taketh."
"Romanian","Borrowed garments never fit well."
"Romanian","From a bad paymaster get what you can."
"Romanian","He that loses is merchant as well as he that gains."
"Romanian","Blow the wind never so fast, it will fall at last."
"Romanian","Blood is thicker than water."
"Romanian","Cabbage twice cooked is death."
"Romanian","Creditors have better memories than debtors."
"Romanian","Deaths foreseen come not."
"Romanian","Death makes equal the high and low."
"Romanian","Death keeps no calendar."
"Romanian","Dead men don't bite."
"Romanian","Dead dogs bite not."
"Romanian","Daughters and dead fish are no keeping wares."
"Romanian","Dally not with women or money."
"Romanian","Cut your coat according to your cloth."
"Romanian","Cut off a dog's tail and he will be a dog still."
"Romanian","Cut not the bough that thou standest upon."
"Romanian","Custom is a second nature."
"Romanian","Crows will not pick out crows' eyes."
"Romanian","Choose a wife to please yourself, not others."
"Romanian","Crooked logs make straight fires."
"Romanian","Christmas comes but once a year."
"Romanian","Covetousness breaks the bag."
"Romanian","Content lodges oftener in cottages than palaces."
"Romanian","Content is more than a kingdom."
"Romanian","Content is happiness."
"Romanian","Constant dropping wears away the stone."
"Romanian","Confess and be hanged."
"Romanian","Complain about the house where the husband is the wife."
"Romanian","Command your man and do it yourself."
"Romanian","Come with the wind, go with the water."
"Romanian","Cold hands, warm heart."
"Romanian","Clothes do not make the man."
"Romanian","Custom rules the law."
"Romanian","Cross the stream where it is ebbest."
"Romanian","Fear of death is worse than death itself."
"Romanian","Fair without, foul within."
"Romanian","Fish begins to stink at the head."
"Romanian","Fish and guests stink after three days."
"Romanian","First think, and then speak."
"Romanian","First come, first served."
"Romanian","First catch your hare."
"Romanian","First catch your hare, then cook him."
"Romanian","Fire is the test of gold; adversity of friendship."
"Romanian","Fire is the test of gold."
"Romanian","Fine words butter no parsnips."
"Romanian","Fields have eyes, woods have ears."
"Romanian","Fields have eyes, and woods have ears."
"Romanian","Follow love and it will flee thee; flee love and it will follow thee."
"Romanian","Fear takes molehills for mountains."
"Romanian","Follow not truth too near the heels, lest it dash out thy teeth."
"Romanian","Fear keeps the garden better than the gardener."
"Romanian","Fear keeps and looks to the vineyard, and not the owner."
"Romanian","Fear is stronger than love."
"Romanian","Fear hath a quick ear."
"Romanian","Fear gives wings."
"Romanian","Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain."
"Romanian","Faults are thick where love is thin."
"Romanian","Far from eye, far from heart."
"Romanian","Fanned fires and forced love never did well yet."
"Romanian","Fair words hurt not the mouth."
"Romanian","Fair words fill not the belly."
"Romanian","Fair words break no bones."
"Romanian","Few words to the wise suffice."
"Romanian","Fortune favours the brave."
"Romanian","Friends tie their purse with a cobweb thread."
"Romanian","Friends may meet, but mountains never greet."
"Romanian","Fresh fish and new-come guests smell in three days."
"Romanian","Four eyes see more than two."
"Romanian","curses, like chickens, come home to roost."
"Romanian","Empty vessels make the greatest sound."
"Romanian","Foul water as soon as fair will quench hot fire."
"Romanian","Fortune's wheel is never stopped."
"Romanian","Fortune knocks once at least at every man's gate."
"Romanian","Fortune is variant."
"Romanian","Fortune is made of glass."
"Romanian","Fortune is like glass."
"Romanian","Fish must swim thrice."
"Romanian","Fortune is blind and makes blind."
"Romanian","Foolish tongues talk by the dozen."
"Romanian","Fortune favours fools."
"Romanian","Forgive all but thyself."
"Romanian","Forewarned is forearmed."
"Romanian","Forbidden fruit is sweet."
"Romanian","Forbear not sowing because of birds."
"Romanian","For want of a nail the shoe is lost; for want of a shoe the horse is lost; for want of a horse the rider is lost."
"Romanian","For age and want save while you may: no morning sun lasts a whole day."
"Romanian","For a flying enemy make a golden bridge."
"Romanian","Fools make feasts, and wise men eat them."
"Romanian","Fools are wise as long as silent."
"Romanian","Foolish fear doubleth danger."
"Romanian","Folly and learning often dwell together."
"Romanian","Fortune is blind."
"Romanian","Every day is not Sunday."
"Romanian","Every man must walk in his own calling."
"Romanian","Every man is the architect of his own fortune."
"Romanian","Every man is mad on some point."
"Romanian","Every man is a king in his own house."
"Romanian","Every man has his gift."
"Romanian","Every man has his faults."
"Romanian","Every man has his cross to bear."
"Romanian","Every man for himself and God for us all."
"Romanian","Every law has a loophole."
"Romanian","Every land has its own law."
"Romanian","Every jack must have his Jill."
"Romanian","Every heart has its own ache."
"Romanian","Every man shall bear his own burden."
"Romanian","Every dog is a lion at home."
"Romanian","Every jack mus have his Jill."
"Romanian","Every day is holiday with sluggards."
"Romanian","Every cloud has a silver lining."
"Romanian","Every block will not make a Mercury."
"Romanian","Every beginning is hard."
"Romanian","Fair is not fair, but that which pleases."
"Romanian","Envy always shoots at a high mark."
"Romanian","Fools ask questions that wise men cannot answer."
"Romanian","Envy never dies."
"Romanian","Even silence is an answer."
"Romanian","Even in paradise it is no fun to be alone."
"Romanian","Even a worm will turn."
"Romanian","Envy shoots at others, and wounds herself."
"Romanian","Every fox must pay his own skin to the flayer."
"Romanian","Everything has an end."
"Romanian","Face to face, the truth comes out."
"Romanian","Experience without learning is better than learning without experience."
"Romanian","Experience is the mother of knowledge."
"Romanian","Experience is the best teacher."
"Romanian","Example is better than precept."
"Romanian","Evil gotten, evil spent."
"Romanian","Every grain has its bran."
"Romanian","Faint heart never won fair lady."
"Romanian","Evil communications corrupt good manners."
"Romanian","Everything new is fine."
"Romanian","Everything is good in its season."
"Romanian","Fair and softly goes far."
"Romanian","Everything comes to him who waits."
"Romanian","Everyone stretches his legs according to the length of his coverlet."
"Romanian","Every shoe fits not every foot."
"Romanian","Every one can find fault; few can do better."
"Romanian","Every miller draws water to his own mill."
"Romanian","Everyone knows best where his own shoe pinches."
"Romanian","Every pedlar praises his needles."
"Romanian","Every reed will not make a pipe."
"Romanian","Every sin brings its punishment with it."
"Romanian","Every white hath its black, and every sweet its sour."
"Romanian","Every why has its wherefore."
"Romanian","Every man to his taste."
"Romanian","Everyone is akin to the rich man."
"Romanian","Every pot has its cover."
"Romanian, Italian","Our last garment is made without pockets."
"Rosicrucian","Fat cats and thin birds can share a yard, but thin cats and fat birds no way."
"Rosicrucian","Like the cat in the tree, getting caught up in the chase can leave us in an awkward place."
"Rumanian","Only fools are glad when governments change."
"Runmanian","There is no wise response to a foolish remark."
"Russian","One fisherman recognizes another from afar."
"Russian","One does not wash one's dirty linen in public."
"Russian","One does not look for good when he is well."
"Russian","One does not go to Tula with one's own samovar."
"Russian","Peace lasts until the army comes, and the army lasts until peace comes."
"Russian","Pray to God but continue to row to the shore."
"Russian","Praying kneads no dough."
"Russian","Small children give you headache; big children heartache."
"Russian","Small choice in rotten apples."
"Russian","Smooth hands love the labor of others."
"Russian","Spending is quick, earning is slow."
"Russian","Still water undermines the bank."
"Russian","Success and rest don't sleep together."
"Russian","Success consecrates the foulest crimes."
"Russian","Success has many fathers, while failure is an orphan."
"Russian","Take the bull by the horns."
"Russian","Take the goods the gods provide."
"Russian","Take thy thoughts to bed with thee, for the morning is wiser than the evening."
"Russian","Take time to smell the roses."
"Russian","Rooster today, feather duster tomorrow."
"Russian","Law is a flag and gold is the wind that makes it wave."
"Russian","If the child does not cry, the mother knows not its wants."
"Russian","If the devil catch a man idle he'll set him at work."
"Russian","If the doctor cures, the sun sees it; but if he kills, the earth hides it."
"Russian","If the pocket is empty, the judge is deaf."
"Russian","If the thunder is not loud, the peasant forgets to cross himself."
"Russian","If you are a host to your guest, be a host to his dog also."
"Russian","If you chase two rabbits, you will not catch either one. [Russian, Za dvumya zaitsami pogonish'sya, ne odnogo ne poimaesh'.]"
"Russian","If you do not strike back at him who hits you, there is no way for him to find out whether you also have hands."
"Russian","If you do what you've always done, you'll get what you've always gotten."
"Russian","If you don't have time to do it right you must have time to do it over."
"Russian","If you were born lucky, even your rooster will lay eggs."
"Russian","If you will not hear reason, she will surely rap your knuckles."
"Russian","Old age is not a joy, but death is not a gain."
"Russian","Keep your ears wider and your mouth narrower."
"Russian","Once burned by milk you will blow on cold water."
"Russian","Laws are silent in time of war."
"Russian","Let everyone pick his own nose."
"Russian","Long whiskers cannot take the place of brains."
"Russian","Looking at a tree see its fruit; looking at a man see his deeds."
"Russian","Love and eggs are best when they are fresh."
"Russian","Mock not the fallen, for slippery is the road ahead of you."
"Russian","Mocking is catching."
"Russian","Not all who make love make marriages."
"Russian","Not everyone who has a cowl on is a monk."
"Russian","Not everything is a mermaid that dives into the water."
"Russian","The fish always stinks from the head downwards."
"Russian","Old age is not a blessing."
"Russian","Take time when time is, for time will away."
"Russian","In a quarrel, leave room for reconciliation."
"Russian","'Tis a hard winter when one wolf eats another."
"Russian","You cannot break through a wall with your forehead."
"Russian","Without a shepherd, sheep are not a flock."
"Russian","With lies you may go ahead in the world--but you can never go back."
"Russian","Where something is thin, that's where it tears."
"Russian","When money talks, the truth is silent."
"Russian","When money speaks the truth is silent."
"Russian","What the young one begs for, the grown-up throws away."
"Russian","Water does not run under a lying stone."
"Russian","Vodka is the aunt of wine."
"Russian","Until you have smoked out the bees, you can't eat the honey."
"Russian","The fall of the leaf; is a whisper to the living."
"Russian","To run away is not glorious, but very healthy."
"Russian","If everyone gives one thread, the poor man will have a shirt."
"Russian","There's no harm in wine; it's drunkenness that is at fault."
"Russian","There will be trouble if the cobbler starts making pies."
"Russian","The scythe ran into a stone."
"Russian","There may be snow on the roof, but there's fire in the belly."
"Russian","The slower you go, the farther you will be."
"Russian","The sluggard will not plough by reason of the cold; therefore shall he beg in harvest, and have nothing."
"Russian","The tallest blade of grass is the first to be cut by the scythe."
"Russian","The tallest tree is rooted in the ground."
"Russian","The toe of the star-gazer is often stubbed."
"Russian","The tongue always returns to the sore tooth."
"Russian","Trust in God but lock your doors."
"Russian","The peasant will not cross himself before it begins to thunder."
"Russian","Tell lies, but become not tangled in lies."
"Russian","Tell me who's your friend and I'll tell you who you are."
"Russian","The calmer you go, the further along you will be."
"Russian","The fall of a leaf is a whisper to the living."
"Russian","The first [cup of vodka] goes as a stake, the second as a falcon, and the third as a little bird."
"Russian","There may be deep bottoms in still waters."
"Russian","The hammer shatters glass but forges steel."
"Russian","The horse may run quickly, but it can't escape its own tail."
"Russian","The morning is wiser than the evening."
"Russian","The morning sun never lasts a day."
"Russian","You cannot pull a fish out of the pond without work."
"Russian","The one who pulls a cart is urged on."
"Russian","Every road has two directions."
"Russian","The rich would have to eat money if the poor did not provide food."
"Russian","The riches that are in the heart cannot be stolen."
"Russian","Your feet are crooked, your hair is good for nothing, said the pig to the horse."
"Russian","You need a sharp axe for a tough bough."
"Russian","You look for the horse you ride on."
"Russian","You don't get something for nothing."
"Russian","You do not really understand something unless you can explain it to your grandmother."
"Russian","You do not need a whip to urge on an obedient horse."
"Russian","You cannot write in the chimney with charcoal."
"Russian","You cannot ride two horses with one ass."
"Russian","Tell God the truth, but give the judge money."
"Russian","The offender never forgives."
"Russian","All are not cooks who walk with long knives."
"Russian","Better a dove on the plate than a woodgrouse in the mating place."
"Russian","A priest's belly is made up of several sheepskins."
"Russian","A proverb can't be judged."
"Russian","A wife is not a pot, she will not break so easily."
"Russian","A word of kindness is better than a fat pie."
"Russian","Absentmindedness is searching for the horse you are riding."
"Russian","Abuse doesn't hang on the collar."
"Russian","A man is judged by his deeds, not by his words."
"Russian","All ages are submissive to love."
"Russian","A long pull and a strong pull and a pull altogether."
"Russian","All lay loads on a willing horse."
"Russian","An egg is dear on Easter day."
"Russian","An enemy will agree, but a friend will argue."
"Russian","An indispensable thing never has much value."
"Russian","Any sandpiper is great in his own swamp."
"Russian","Ask a lot, but take what is offered."
"Russian","Ask a silly question and you get a silly answer."
"Russian","Beat your own and others will fear you."
"Russian","Acknowledgement is half of correction."
"Russian","Mock not the fallen, for slippery is the road ahead of you."
"Russian","Ask a lot, but take what is offered."
"Russian","Cows forget that they were calves."
"Russian","Every peasant is proud of the pond in his village because from it he measures the sea."
"Russian","The hammer shatters glass but forges steel."
"Russian","He who doesn't risk never gets to drink champagne."
"Russian","If everyone gives one thread, the poor man will have a shirt."
"Russian","If you are a host to your guest, be a host to his dog also."
"Russian","A mile walk with a friend has only one hundred steps."
"Russian","If you do not strike back at him who hits you, there is no way for him to find out whether you also have hands."
"Russian","A fly cannot enter a closed mouth."
"Russian","Tell me who's your friend and I'll tell you who you are."
"Russian","Every seed knows its time."
"Russian","A drop hollows out a stone."
"Russian","I need not fear my enemies because the most they can do is attack me. I need not fear my friends because the most they can do is betray me. But I have much to fear from people who are indifferent."
"Russian","A good citizen owes his life to his country."
"Russian","A guest has not to thank the host, but the host the guest."
"Russian","A kind word is like a Spring day."
"Russian","A lonely person is at home everywhere."
"Russian","Za dvumya zaitsami pogonish'sya, ne odnogo ne poimaesh'. (If you chase two rabbits, you will not catch either one.)"
"Russian","Gossip needs no carriage."
"Russian","Fear has big eyes."
"Russian","Fear the goat from the front, the horse from the rear, and man from all sides."
"Russian","Fear the Greeks bearing gifts."
"Russian","For him who does not believe in signs, there is no way to live in the world."
"Russian","For ill do well, Then fear not hell."
"Russian","Give your children too much freedom and you lose your own."
"Russian","Glory lies still; abuse is running."
"Russian","Every sandpiper praises his own swamp."
"Russian","God does not give to the cow that butts."
"Russian","Happiness is not a horse; you cannot harness it."
"Russian","Better a fair pair of heels than a halter."
"Russian","Having a good wife and rich cabbage soup, seek not other things."
"Russian","A cat always knows whose meat it eats."
"Russian","He can cheat a fish of its skin."
"Russian","He need not search his pockets for words."
"Russian","He who doesn't risk never gets to drink champagne."
"Russian","Hypocrites kick with their hind feet while licking with their tongues."
"Russian","Glowing coals sparkle oft."
"Russian","Deprive a mirror of its silver and even the czar won't see his face."
"Russian","Chickens are counted in autumn."
"Russian","Having given your word, be strong; not having done it, try not to promise."
"Russian","Cry and the whole world cries with you."
"Russian","Curious Varvara's nose was torn off."
"Russian","Confide a secret to a dumb man and he will speak."
"Russian","Desert and reward seldom keep company."
"Russian","Do not make an elephant out of a fly."
"Russian","Do not make me kiss, and you will not make me sin."
"Russian","Don't put it in my ear, but in my hand."
"Russian","Eat what is cooked; listen to what is said."
"Russian","Every peasant is proud of the pond in his village because from it he measures the sea."
"Russian","Cry not out before you are hurt."
"Russian","Even a blind pig finds an acorn every once in awhile."
"Russian","Eternal peace lasts only until the next war."
"Russian","Eggs cannot teach a hen."
"Russian","Even a blind squirrel finds an acorn sometimes."
"Russian","Don't put new wine into old bottles."
"Russian","He who doesn't risk never gets to drink champagne."
"Russian","How is prompted, it will bounce back."
"Russian","Heart with pepper, soul with garlic."
"Russian","He who is destined for the gallows will not be drowned."
"Russian","He who is frightened of a sparrow will never sow barley."
"Russian","He took the devil's mat, but he'll pay back with his skin."
"Russian","How echo is prompted, it will bounce back."
"Russian","He who offers his back should not complain if it is beaten."
"Russian","Hope for God, but do not be reliant."
"Russian","His word is as good as a tied knot."
"Russian","He would exclaim ""Ah"" looking at himself."
"Russian","He that would learn to pray, let him go to sea."
"Russian","Have a good time if you want -- but don't overdo it."
"Russian","Hold your children with your heart but teach them with your hands."
"Russian","Honor goes to God; the priests get the bacon."
"Russian","He who serves the Tsar cannot serve his people."
"Russian","Haste is good only for catching flies."
"Russian","Hands wash each other."
"Russian","Hang a German, even if he is a good man."
"Russian","Happiness is not a horse, you cannot harness it."
"Russian","If the collective farm is wealthy, the farmer is happy."
"Russian","However much you steal from your state, all the same you won't get your own back."
"Russian","Habit is a second nature."
"Russian","Having given your word, be strong; not having done it, try not to promise."
"Russian","Happiness is not a horse; you cannot harness it."
"Russian","He need not search his pockets for words."
"Russian","Habit is a shirt that we wear till death."
"Russian","Having a good wife and rich cabbage soup, seek not other things."
"Russian","He can cheat a fish of its skin."
"Russian","He is dead who is faultless."
"Russian","He lied like an eyewitness."
"Russian","He lived a colonel but died a corpse."
"Russian","He makes the bed soft, yet it's hard to sleep on."
"Russian","Guard your honor from your youth, and your weapons once you've got them in hand."
"Russian","If the peasant doesn't hear the thunder he won't make the sign of the cross."
"Russian","If rubles fell from heaven the poor would have no bag."
"Russian","If not by washing, then by rolling."
"Russian","If one hand were the other they would both want to be clean."
"Russian","If the child does not cry, the mother won't know what it wants."
"Russian","If the devil catch a man idle he'll set him at work."
"Russian","If the doctor cures, the sun sees it; but if he kills, the earth hides it."
"Russian","If Moscow is the heart of Russia and St. Petersburg is its head, then Kiev is its mother."
"Russian","If the fool has a hunchback no one remarks about it; if a wise man has a boil everybody talks about it."
"Russian","If men could foresee the future, they would still behave as they do now."
"Russian","If the pocket is empty, the judge is deaf."
"Russian","Gossip needs no carriage."
"Russian","Everything is funny as long as it happens to someone else."
"Russian","If you are a host to your guest, be a host to his dog as well."
"Russian","If there is no caviar one eats porridge."
"Russian","If the thunder is not loud, the peasant forgets to cross himself."
"Russian","If there is no apple one eats a little carrot."
"Russian","If the family is together, the soul is in the right place."
"Russian","Idleness is the mother of all vices."
"Russian","However muchwould the string wind, the end will be reached anyway."
"Russian","However would the string wind, the end will be reached."
"Russian","However you feed the wolf, he still looks at the wood."
"Russian","Hunger is not your aunt."
"Russian","Hypocrites kick with their hind feet while licking with their tongues."
"Russian","I need not fear my enemies because the most they can do is attack me. I need not fear my friends because the most they can do is betray me. But I have much to fear from people who are indifferent."
"Russian","If mushrooms grew in the mouth, that would be not mouth but kitchen garden."
"Russian","Ice in spring is treacherous; new friendships are seldom sure."
"Russian","However much,good you feed the wolf, he still looks at the wood."
"Russian","If a poor man finds a penny, it is probably a false one."
"Russian","If age and experience came at birth, We would have neither youth nor mirth."
"Russian","If everyone gives one thread, the poor man will have a shirt."
"Russian","If everyone were a gentleman, who would make the mills work?"
"Russian","If God listened to every shepherd's curse, our sheep would all be dead."
"Russian","If God sends you meal, the devil takes the sack."
"Russian","If Jesus Christ comes to help me, I laugh at the angels."
"Russian","I sell it for what I bought it."
"Russian","First do it, then say it."
"Russian","Fear has large eyes."
"Russian","Fear the goat from the front, the horse from the rear, and a man from all sides."
"Russian","Fear the Greeks bearing gifts."
"Russian","Fear the law not the judge."
"Russian","Fedot, yet not the one."
"Russian","Fedot, yet not the right one."
"Russian","Eyes are afraid, but hands are doing the job."
"Russian","Fighting for your country glorifies death."
"Russian","Everyone loves the tree that gives him shelter."
"Russian","First the stable, then the cow."
"Russian","Fishermen recognize each other from far away."
"Russian","Fools make feasts and wise men eat them."
"Russian","For a drunkard the sea only reaches his knees."
"Russian","For a drunken one a sea is knee-deep, and a puddle - ears-deep."
"Russian","For a mad dog, seven versts is not a long detour."
"Russian","Feel free to jabber, Emelya ? it's your week."
"Russian","Every day is a messenger of God."
"Russian","Even one person in the field is a warrior, if he is a soviet warrior."
"Russian","Even pulling a fish out of the pond requires some effort."
"Russian","Masters are fighting, servants' forelocks are creaking."
"Russian","If you are afraid of the wolves, do not go to the woods."
"Russian","Even vinegar is sweet when for freebie."
"Russian","Even walls may have ears."
"Russian","Fear has big eyes."
"Russian","Every cricket must know its hearth."
"Russian","Everything tastes bitter to him with gall in his mouth."
"Russian","Every peasant is proud of the pond in his village because from it he measures the sea."
"Russian","Every road has two directions."
"Russian","Every sandpiper praises his own swamp."
"Russian","Every sandpiper praises its own swamp."
"Russian","Every seed knows its time."
"Russian","Every vegetable has its time."
"Russian","For every one with a plow ? there're seven with a spoon."
"Russian","Every ananya has his melania."
"Russian","God is far up high, the Tsar is far away."
"Russian","For a poor man, to prepare for a trip means belt himself."
"Russian","God does not give horns to a cow that likes to gore."
"Russian","God does not give to the cow that butts."
"Russian","God doesn't give more beards than soap."
"Russian","God gave, God took back."
"Russian","God gives to those who get up early."
"Russian","God bestows no horns upon an ill-tempered cow."
"Russian","God is always where we don't look for him."
"Russian","Glowing coals sparkle oft."
"Russian","God keeps those safe who keep themselves safe."
"Russian","God marks the crook."
"Russian","God takes care of the one who takes care of himself."
"Russian","God wanted to chastise mankind, so he sent lawyers."
"Russian","God wanted to punish mankind, so he created lawyers."
"Russian","Golden hands, but a wicked mouth."
"Russian","Good brotherhood is the best wealth."
"Russian","God gives to those who wake up early."
"Russian","Friendship is friendship, but keep our tobacco apart."
"Russian","Good fortune wears a pretty dress but its underclothes do not bear investigation."
"Russian","For him who does not believe in signs, there is no way to live in the world."
"Russian","For ill do well, Then fear not hell."
"Russian","For some people war is war, for others - dear mother."
"Russian","Force a fool to pray and he'll crack his forehead."
"Russian","Forgiveness is a pillar of justice."
"Russian","God comes with leaden feet but strikes with iron hands."
"Russian","Freedom for the free and heaven for the saved."
"Russian","For each wise man there are plenty of fools."
"Russian","Friendship is one thing and tobacco is another."
"Russian","From fire to flame."
"Russian","Further from the eye - closer to the heart."
"Russian","Give a naked man a piece of cloth and he will say it is too thick."
"Russian","Give your children too much freedom and you lose your own."
"Russian","Giving gifts to the rich is like pouring water into the sea."
"Russian","Glory lies still; abuse is running."
"Russian","Fortune and misfortune live in the same courtyard."
"Russian","Look for wind in a field."
"Russian","Like two drops of water."
"Russian","Live and scratch -- when you're dead the itching will stop."
"Russian","Live for a century ? learn for a century."
"Russian","Living life is not like crossing a meadow."
"Russian","Living life is not like just crossing a field."
"Russian","Living mindlessly is paradise."
"Russian","It's better to see once than hear a hundred times."
"Russian","Long whiskers cannot take the place of brains."
"Russian","Lie, but don't overdo it."
"Russian","Looking at a tree see its fruit; looking at a man see his deeds."
"Russian","Loose words are picked up like gold coin."
"Russian","Love and eggs are best when they are fresh."
"Russian","Love has its own language, but marriage falls back on the local dialect."
"Russian","Love is like a glass that breaks if handled clumsily."
"Russian","Love makes the owl seem prettier than a white falcon."
"Russian","Living your life is not like crossing a meadow."
"Russian","Know friend when trouble."
"Russian","Many who have gold in the house are looking for copper outside."
"Russian","It's nice to have a spoon in time for dinner."
"Russian","It's the still waters that are inhibited by devils."
"Russian","Jabber, Emelya ? your week."
"Russian","Jesus Christ was crucified by public opinion."
"Russian","Judges and physicians kill with impunity."
"Russian","Like priest, like church."
"Russian","Keep your eye on the ball."
"Russian","Life is short, but there's a lot to be done."
"Russian","Law is a flag and gold is the wind that makes it wave."
"Russian","Law is like a shaft of a cart, it points wherever you turn it to."
"Russian","Laws are silent in time of war."
"Russian","Lenin's science strengthens the mind and the hands."
"Russian","Lenin's truth makes great strides all around the world."
"Russian","Let everyone pick his own nose."
"Russian","Make peace with people; wage war with your sins."
"Russian","Keep your ears wider and your mouth narrower."
"Russian","No apple tree is immune from worms."
"Russian","Make a friend of the wolf, but keep your axe ready."
"Russian","Mute as a fish."
"Russian","My job 'cock-a-doodle-doo'; from then on, it may not dawn."
"Russian","My job is to scream, 'cock-a-doodle-doo'; from then on, it may not dawn."
"Russian","Near is my shirt, but nearer is my skin."
"Russian","Neither fish nor meat."
"Russian","Moscow does not believe in tears."
"Russian","Never kiss an opportunity with a dirty mouth."
"Russian","Money is only good for a weekday, a holiday, and a rainy day."
"Russian","No family has no ugly member."
"Russian","No man can be a good ruler unless he has first been ruled."
"Russian","No matter how much you feed a wolf, he will always return to the forest."
"Russian","No money is taken for just looking at somebody or something."
"Russian","No one is hanged who has money in his pocket."
"Russian","Even in the ashes there will be a few sparks."
"Russian","A long pull and a strong pull and a pull altogether."
"Russian","Neither rhyme nor harmony."
"Russian","Men who watch their fortune grow find their houses too small."
"Russian","It's better to be too aware than too unaware."
"Russian","Make thyself a sheep, and the wolf is ready."
"Russian","Make yourself a sheep and the wolf is ready."
"Russian","Makes the bed soft, yet hard to sleep."
"Russian","Many people who have gold in the house are looking for copper outside."
"Russian","Mass is not repeated for the deaf."
"Russian","Much noise from nothing."
"Russian","Measure thy cloth ten times, thou canst cut it but once."
"Russian","Make peace with man and war with your sins."
"Russian","Men will not be fortunate without a helping hand from misfortune."
"Russian","Messengers should be neither beheaded nor hanged."
"Russian","Misfortune does not visit the weak-hearted."
"Russian","Mistrust is an axe in the tree of love."
"Russian","Mock not the fallen, for slippery is the road ahead of you."
"Russian","Mocking is catching."
"Russian","Money is like down -- one puff and it's gone."
"Russian","Meanness looks through one eye only, ambition is blind."
"Russian","If you will not hear reason, she will surely rap your knuckles."
"Russian","If you rely on god, you won't fail."
"Russian","If you rush things, you'll just make others laugh."
"Russian","If you start chasing two hares, you will catch none."
"Russian","If you take it together, it will not be heavy."
"Russian","If you talk to an official you must talk rubles."
"Russian","If you throw nettles into your neighbors garden you will find them growing in your own."
"Russian","It's easier to tear a hole than to mend one."
"Russian","If you were born lucky, even your rooster will lay eggs."
"Russian","If you have eaten the morsel on Wednesday, do not look for it on Thursday."
"Russian","If you're afraid of wolves, don't go to the woods."
"Russian","If your face looks skewed, don't blame the mirror."
"Russian","If your face skewed, don't blame the mirror."
"Russian","If your heart is a rose, then your mouth will speak perfumed words."
"Russian","In a crush, yet without resentment."
"Russian","In a deal there are two fools: the one who asks too much and the one who asks too little."
"Russian","If you want to be a hundred you must start young."
"Russian","If you don't have time to do it right you must have time to do it over."
"Russian","If you called yourself a milk-mushroom ? get into the basket!."
"Russian","If you chase two rabbits, you will not catch either one."
"Russian","If you didn't catch anything when fishing, then a crab is a fish."
"Russian","If you do not strike back at him who hits you, there is no way for him to find out whether you also have hands."
"Russian","If you do what you've always done, you'll get what you've always gotten."
"Russian","If you don't crack the shell, you can't eat the nut."
"Russian","If you make a fool to pray to God, he will hurt forehead."
"Russian","If you don't have a hundred rubles, make sure you have a hundred friends."
"Russian","If you learn a lot, you'll age soon."
"Russian","If you enjoy riding, enjoy pulling the sleigh."
"Russian","If you enjoy riding, you better enjoy pulling the sleigh."
"Russian","If you feel an urge to work, take a nap, and it will pass."
"Russian","If you flatter the mother, you will embrace the daughter."
"Russian","If you follow god, you won't find anything."
"Russian","If you go to war pray once; if you go on a sea journey pray twice; but pray three times when you are going to be married."
"Russian","In a rickety stable the cow produces no milk."
"Russian","If you don't deceive, you can't sell."
"Russian","It was smooth on paper, but forgotten about ravines."
"Russian","In a fight the rich man tries to save his face, the poor man his coat."
"Russian","It is good to pay with other people's money."
"Russian","It is never winter in the land of hope."
"Russian","It is not the horse that draws the cart, but the oats."
"Russian","It is unpleasant to go alone, even to be drowned."
"Russian","It is wanted and repellent."
"Russian","It is easy to undress the naked."
"Russian","It takes all kinds of trees to make a forest."
"Russian","It is easier to fill twenty bellies than one pair of eyes."
"Russian","It was smooth on paper, but we've forgotten about ravines."
"Russian","It will heal well before your wedding."
"Russian","It will last out our time; if after us no grass grows, what does it matter to us?"
"Russian","It will snap where it's the thinnest."
"Russian","It's a crime if you get caught."
"Russian","It's better to be a cripple than always sitting down."
"Russian","It's better to be known as a rascal than a fool."
"Russian","It makes chicken laugh."
"Russian","In the times of czar Goroch."
"Russian","If you are going to do something carelessly, it is better to give it up entirely."
"Russian","In affect you can break even an elm."
"Russian","In other persons' eye one can see a mote, in one's own - cannot see a log."
"Russian","In Russia every day is of thirty hours."
"Russian","In the garden of time grows the flower of consolation."
"Russian","In the kingdom of hope, there is no winter."
"Russian","It is good to be visiting, but it is better at home."
"Russian","In the land of hope, there is never any winter."
"Russian","In a quarrel, leave room for reconciliation."
"Russian","Intoxication is not the wine's fault but man's."
"Russian","Invite a peasant to your table and he'll put his feet on it."
"Russian","It is a bad workman that has a bad saw."
"Russian","It is bread that keeps one warm, not fur."
"Russian","It is easier for the horse when a woman gets off the cart."
"Russian","It is easier to bear a child once a year than to shave every day."
"Russian","It is easier to fill 20 bellies than one pair of the eyes."
"Russian","In the lake of lies there are many dead fish."
"Russian","A woman farmer had no trouble, so she bought a piglet."
"Russian","A titmouse in the hand is better than a crane in the sky."
"Russian","A toad too would like to crack nuts, but he has no teeth."
"Russian","A virgin's heart is a dark forest."
"Russian","A wife is not a pot, she will not break so easily."
"Russian","A wife should be as humble as a lamb, busy as a bee, as beautiful as a bird of paradise and faithful as a turtle dove."
"Russian","A wise companion is half the journey."
"Russian","A proverb can't be judged."
"Russian","A wolf won't eat wolf."
"Russian","A thief's hat is burning."
"Russian","A woman's tongue is longer than her hair."
"Russian","A wooden bed is better than a golden coffin."
"Russian","A word of kindness is better than a bottle of vodka."
"Russian","A young man should not marry yet, an old man not at all."
"Russian","Absentmindedness is searching for the horse you are riding."
"Russian","Abuse doesn't hang on the collar."
"Russian","A wise man sees only water in the tears of a woman."
"Russian","A sparrow in the hand is better than a cock on the roof."
"Russian","An unsolicited guest is worse than a Tatar."
"Russian","A sea will not dry up, a nation will not get lost."
"Russian","A silent man is not a conquered man."
"Russian","A sin of gold is followed by a punishment of lead."
"Russian","A single Russian hair outweighs half a Pole."
"Russian","A sleeping fox counts chicken in his dreams."
"Russian","A thread from everyone will make a shirt for the needy."
"Russian","A soldier on furlough lets his shirt hang out of his trousers."
"Russian","A thousand friends are few; one enemy is too many."
"Russian","A spoken word is like a sparrow that once has flown away, cannot be caught again."
"Russian","A spoken word is not a sparrow. Once it flies out, you can't catch it."
"Russian","A spooked crow is afraid of a bush."
"Russian","A spoonful of tar in a barrel of honey."
"Russian","A stranger's soul is like a dark forest."
"Russian","A tale is soon told; a deed is not soon done."
"Russian","Advertising is the driving force of business."
"Russian","A smart person will not climb a mountain; A smart person will go around it."
"Russian","An ill-paying job is better than a lucrative heist."
"Russian","Accidents will happen in the best-regulated families."
"Russian","An axe does not cut down a tree by itself."
"Russian","An egg is dear on Easter day."
"Russian","An empty barrel makes the greatest sound."
"Russian","An empty barrel rattles louder."
"Russian","An empty mill will turn without the wind."
"Russian","An agreement is more valuable than money."
"Russian","An icon for the mind is like raw vodka for the stomach."
"Russian","All the cones drop on poor makar."
"Russian","An indispensable thing never has much value."
"Russian","An old dog can't get used to chains."
"Russian","An old friend is better than two new ones."
"Russian","An old loan repaid is like finding something new."
"Russian","An old man telling lies is like a rich man stealing."
"Russian","An uninvited guest is worse than the Mongol invasion."
"Russian","A man is judged by his deeds, not by his words."
"Russian","An enemy will agree, but a friend will argue."
"Russian","All are not cooks that walk with long knives."
"Russian","A priest's belly is made up of several sheepskins."
"Russian","Afraid of the enemies - don't be a border guard."
"Russian","After a storm comes fair weather, after sorrow comes joy."
"Russian","After a storm fair weather, after sorrow joy."
"Russian","After all, every man is the son of a woman."
"Russian","After the head is off, one does not cry over the hair."
"Russian","An argument is fine only when there is to be a fight."
"Russian","All ages are submissive to love."
"Russian","Acknowledgement is half of correction."
"Russian","All are not cooks who walk with long knives."
"Russian","All cats are grey at night."
"Russian","All is not gold that glitters."
"Russian","All is well that ends well."
"Russian","All lay loads on a willing horse."
"Russian","All roads lead to moscow."
"Russian","All roads lead to Rome."
"Russian","After your daughter is married, there comes a number of potential sons-in-law."
"Russian","A fly will not get into a closed mouth."
"Russian","A drop hollows out a stone."
"Russian","A drop in the sea."
"Russian","A drop of water in the eyes of the Tsar costs the country many handkerchiefs."
"Russian","A field held in common is always ravaged by bears."
"Russian","A field in common is always ravaged by bears."
"Russian","A fisherman can recognize another fisherman from afar."
"Russian","A ruler without a nation is like a flower without the sun."
"Russian","A fly will not come into a closed mouth."
"Russian","A dog on the hay: will neither eat it himself, nor let others eat."
"Russian","A fool is not afraid to lose his mind."
"Russian","A fool may throw into a well a stone which a hundred wise men cannot pull out."
"Russian","A friendly word is like a spring day."
"Russian","A girl never grows into a lady."
"Russian","A glass for the vodka, for the beer a mug, and for the table, cheerful company."
"Russian","A golden handshake convinces even the most skeptical judge."
"Russian","A fly cannot enter a closed mouth."
"Russian","A bird may be known by its flight."
"Russian","No one is dragged to heaven by the hair."
"Russian","Your feet are crooked, your hair is good for nothing, said the pig to the horse."
"Russian","'Tis a hard winter when one wolf eats another."
"Russian","A bachelor is never sent as a go-between."
"Russian","A bad dancer always has trouble with his balls."
"Russian","A bad peace is better than a good quarrel."
"Russian","A drop from every mug makes for a house for the barmaid."
"Russian","A beaten one is worth two unbeaten ones."
"Russian","A drawing man clutches at straw."
"Russian","A boat stands firmer with two anchors."
"Russian","A cat always knows whose meat it eats."
"Russian","A cross-eyed Tsar, one-eyed ministers, blind subjects."
"Russian","A day is long, but a lifetime is short."
"Russian","A dog is wiser than a woman; it does not bark at its master."
"Russian","A dog on the hay: will neither eat it himself, nor let others eat it."
"Russian","A good laugh is sunshine in a house."
"Russian","A bad rumour flies on wings."
"Russian","A new broom sweeps in a new way."
"Russian","A good borrower is a lazy payer."
"Russian","A lonely person is at home everywhere."
"Russian","A lucky man can stumble upon a treasure while an unlucky one can't even find a mushroom."
"Russian","A man should not be struck when he is down."
"Russian","A man without a wife is like a man in winter without a fur cap."
"Russian","A mile walk with a friend has only one hundred steps."
"Russian","A little spark kindles a great fire."
"Russian","A net will catch more than a pole."
"Russian","A liar can go round the world but cannot come back."
"Russian","A nightingale doesn't feed on songs."
"Russian","A Party member is an active person."
"Russian","A person never gets tired working for himself."
"Russian","A pessimist is a well-informed optimist."
"Russian","A pig in a parlor is still a pig."
"Russian","A pig will find mud."
"Russian","A priest's beard is always soaked in butter."
"Russian","A mile walked with a friend has only one hundred steps."
"Russian","A hammer breaks glass, but also forms steel. Everything cannot be hung on one nail."
"Russian","Any fish is good if it is on the hook."
"Russian","A good man maybe, but it's best to shoot him."
"Russian","A good merchant has neither money nor goods."
"Russian","A good wife and a wholesome cabbage soup, what more could you want?"
"Russian","A good-looking man is pleasant to look at, but it is easier to live with an amusing one."
"Russian","A goose doesn't befriend a pig."
"Russian","A lizard on a cushion will still seek leaves."
"Russian","A guest has not to thank the host, but the host the guest."
"Russian","A good citizen owes his life to his country."
"Russian","A hammer will shatter glass yet it can forge steel."
"Russian","A handful of dirt is pleasing if it's your own land."
"Russian","A Horse has four legs, but still stumbles."
"Russian","A judge and a stomach do their asking in silence."
"Russian","A jug that has been mended lasts two hundred years."
"Russian","A kind word is like a spring day."
"Russian","A kopeck saves the rouble, and the rouble guards your head."
"Russian","A gowk at yule'll no be bright at beltane."
"Russian","Don't blame your wife's side if your son is cross-eyed."
"Russian","Do not praise yourself when going of to battle going into battle; praise yourself coming out of battle."
"Russian","Do not spit in the well - you may be thirsty by and by."
"Russian","Do not spit into a well?it may be useful to drink water."
"Russian","Do not spit into the well that you might need to drink out of."
"Russian","Do not spit into the well you may have to drink of."
"Russian","Do not teach a learned person."
"Russian","Desert and reward seldom keep company."
"Russian","Don't be so clever; cleverer ones than you are in jail."
"Russian","Do not measure others by your own yardstick."
"Russian","Don't boast when you start out, but when you get there."
"Russian","Don't buy the house, buy the neighborhood."
"Russian","Don't buy the house; buy the neighborhood."
"Russian","Don't chat on the phone - a talker is a great find for a spy."
"Russian","Don't dig a hole for someone else, as you will fall into it yourself."
"Russian","Don't drive a Binya into the woods if he has found his way to your house."
"Russian","Do not teach a pike to swim, a pike knows his own science."
"Russian","Do not look at gift horse's mouth."
"Russian","An unsolicited guest is better than a solicited one."
"Russian","Devils live in beautiful mansions."
"Russian","Devils live in quiet pond."
"Russian","Dividing the pelt of a bear not yet killed."
"Russian","Do not be born good or handsome, but be born lucky."
"Russian","Do not carry rubbish out of your hut."
"Russian","Do not play with fire - you will burn yourself."
"Russian","Do not dig a hole for somebody else; you yourself will fall into it."
"Russian","Do not plant a tree with its root upward."
"Russian","Do not look at gift hourse's mouth."
"Russian","Do not look for further good from good."
"Russian","Do not look for good from good."
"Russian","Do not make an elephant out of a fly."
"Russian","Do not make jokes that cost more than a ruble."
"Russian","Do not make me kiss, and you will not make me sin."
"Russian","Don't look a gift horse in the mouth."
"Russian","Do not cut the bough you are sitting on."
"Russian","Eternal peace lasts only until the next war."
"Russian","Don't fight with the strong one, don't sue the rich one."
"Russian","Eggs cannot teach a hen."
"Russian","Eggs don't teach the hens anything."
"Russian","Either chest in crosses, or a head in bushes."
"Russian","Elder-berry is in the kitchen-garden, therefore your Uncle is in Kiev."
"Russian","Elderberries in the yard and an uncle in kiev."
"Russian","Eat what is cooked, listen to what is said."
"Russian","Envy sees the sea but not the rocks."
"Russian","Eat until you are half full; drink until you are half drunk."
"Russian","Eternal peace lasts until the next war."
"Russian","Eternity makes room for a salty cucumber."
"Russian","Even a blind pig finds an acorn every once in awhile."
"Russian","Even a blind squirrel finds an acorn sometimes."
"Russian","Even an eagle will not fly higher than the sun."
"Russian","Even an old lady makes mistakes."
"Russian","Even good dogs have fleas."
"Russian","Envy can breed swans from bad duck eggs."
"Russian","Don't raise your stick and the dog won't bark at you."
"Russian","Deprive a mirror of its silver and even the czar won't see his face."
"Russian","Don't look for a sea when you can drown in a puddle."
"Russian","Don't pluck the apple while it is green; when it is ripe it will fall of itself."
"Russian","Don't praise your furnace when the house is cold."
"Russian","Don't put all eggs in one basket."
"Russian","Don't put all your eggs in one basket."
"Russian","Eat what is cooked; listen to what is said."
"Russian","Don't put new wine into old bottles."
"Russian","Don't hope for rain or thunder, hope for an agronomist."
"Russian","Don't swear off of beggary and jail."
"Russian","Don't wake up trouble while it sleeps quietly."
"Russian","Don't worry if you borrow, but worry if you lend."
"Russian","Drowing man clutches at straw."
"Russian","Each day learns from the one before it, but no day teaches the one after it."
"Russian","Each time it is different."
"Russian","Ears do not grow higher than the head."
"Russian","Don't put it in my ear, but in my hand."
"Russian","Berry by berry, a basket will be full."
"Russian","Bad luck is fertile."
"Russian","Badly oiled wheels will squeak."
"Russian","Be patient, cossack, and you'll be a chieftain."
"Russian","Be wise, but pretend to be ignorant."
"Russian","Beat your own and others will fear you."
"Russian","Beauty is the sister of idleness and the mother of luxury."
"Russian","Desire is worse then compulsion."
"Russian","Before we went to churches and bars - now we go to clubs and cinemas."
"Russian","Ask a lot, but take what is offered."
"Russian","Best is the enemy of good."
"Russian","Better a bed of wood than a bier of gold."
"Russian","Better a dove on the plate than a woodgrouse in the mating place."
"Russian","Better a fair pair of heels than a halter."
"Russian","Better late than never."
"Russian","Better to stumble than make a slip of the tongue."
"Russian","Beauty's sister is vanity, and its daughter lust."
"Russian","As long as the fish swims in the water, don't light up the grill."
"Russian","Any sandpiper is great in his own swamp."
"Russian","Around bread there will always be crumbs."
"Russian","As busy as a bee."
"Russian","As chicken is not a bird, woman is not a human being."
"Russian","As cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far place."
"Russian","As hungry as a wolf."
"Russian","Asking is no sin, and being refused is no tragedy."
"Russian","As long as a child does not cry, it does not matter what pleases it."
"Russian","Ask a silly question and you get a silly answer."
"Russian","As long as the sun shines one does not ask for the moon."
"Russian","As soon as your cart is turned over, everyone rushes to give you advice."
"Russian","As twice two is four."
"Russian","As you brew, so must you drink."
"Russian","As you cooked the porridge, so must you eat it."
"Russian","As you make your bed, so you will sleep."
"Russian","Between hammer and anvil."
"Russian","As is well that ends well."
"Russian","Death answers before it is asked."
"Russian","Better to turn back than to lose your way."
"Russian","Crows are black the world over."
"Russian","Cry and the whole world cries with you."
"Russian","Cry not for the hair when the head is off."
"Russian","Cry not out before you are hurt."
"Russian","Curious Varvara's nose was torn off."
"Russian","Cows forget that they were calves."
"Russian","Cut down the tree that you are able to."
"Russian","Conversation shortens the distance, singing lightens the load."
"Russian","Death carries on its shoulders a heavy Tsar just as easily as a light beggar."
"Russian","Death does not come free of charge, for it costs us our life."
"Russian","Death does not take the old but the ripe."
"Russian","Death is a giant against whom even the Tsars must draw weapons."
"Russian","Death is not found behind mountains but right behind our shoulders."
"Russian","Debt is beautiful after repaid."
"Russian","Debt is beautiful only after it is repaid."
"Russian","Custom is stronger than law."
"Russian","Cat died of curiosity."
"Russian","Even honor is not an honor, if there is nothing to eat."
"Russian","Beware of a quiet dog and still water."
"Russian","Beware of a quite dog and still water."
"Russian","Big voyage for a big ship."
"Russian","Both cheap and angry."
"Russian","Bread and salt never quarrel."
"Russian","Creditors have better memories than debtors."
"Russian","Call a pot, just don't put into the oven."
"Russian","Better too aware than too unaware."
"Russian","Chickens are counted in autumn."
"Russian","Chipped china lasts two centuries."
"Russian","Choose a matchmaker, not a bride."
"Russian","Clemency is the support of justice."
"Russian","Clever father, clever daughter; clever mother, clever son."
"Russian","Close to the Tsar, close to death."
"Russian","Confide a secret to a dumb man and he will speak."
"Russian","Bury truth in a golden coffin, it will break it open."
"Russian","Together, it's cramped; apart, it's boring."
"Russian","Until you have smoked out the bees, you can't eat the honey."
"Russian","Unless the thunder strikes, a man won't cross himself."
"Russian","Two hands upon the breast, and labour is past."
"Russian","Two communists lead three hundred unaffiliated."
"Russian","Two boots make a pair."
"Russian","Two bears don't live in one cave."
"Russian","Truth does not need many words."
"Russian","Trust, but verify."
"Russian","Trust in God, but mind your own business."
"Russian","Trust in God but lock your doors."
"Russian","Trouble never comes alone."
"Russian","When death is there, dying is over."
"Russian","Trouble is here, so open the gates."
"Russian","Vixen resolved not to steal chicken."
"Russian","To us - in the tanks, going back - on the sleds."
"Russian","To run away is not glorious, but very healthy."
"Russian","To live with wolves, you have to howl like a wolf."
"Russian","To live is well, but to live well is better."
"Russian","To know that candles are expensive is of no value to the blind man."
"Russian","To keep a new friend, never break with the old."
"Russian","To every high mountain, there is a higher one."
"Russian","To become a master or a deadman."
"Russian","To ask is no sin, and to be refused is no calamity."
"Russian","Time makes the best healer."
"Russian","Time best healer."
"Russian","Trouble is the beginning of disaster."
"Russian","What comes out of one mouth goes into a hundred others."
"Russian","The stargazer's toe is often stubbed."
"Russian","When a needle sees a dagger, she cries ""O sister!"""
"Russian","When a girl is born all four walls weep."
"Russian","What you plant, that you will harvest."
"Russian","What you go looking for, you will find."
"Russian","What was written by a pen, cannot be taken out with an axe."
"Russian","What the young one begs for, the grown-up throws away."
"Russian","What the heart doesn't see, the eye will not see either."
"Russian","What plant, that will harvest."
"Russian","What men usually ask for when they pray to God is, that two and two may not make four."
"Russian","What makes you happy, makes you rich."
"Russian","USSR - an example for all."
"Russian","What go looking for, will find."
"Russian","Visiting is good, but home is better."
"Russian","What boy one begs for, the man throws away."
"Russian","Went to get wool, but returned bald."
"Russian","We use to live and spill tears, now we live and build happiness."
"Russian","We do not care of what we have, but we cry when it is lost."
"Russian","We all see the same sun, but we don't eat the same meal."
"Russian","Water never loses its way."
"Russian","Water does not run under a lying stone."
"Russian","Warm a frozen snake and it will be the first to bite you."
"Russian","Wait three years for promised."
"Russian","Vows made in storms are forgotten in calms."
"Russian","Vodka is the aunt of wine."
"Russian","Those who are discontent to remain in one place will not earn much."
"Russian","What johnny will not teach himself, johnny will never know."
"Russian","The vulture embraced the chicken until its last breath."
"Russian","Thread off the world ? shirt for naked."
"Russian","There are two kinds of Chinese: those who give wine and those who drink it."
"Russian","There are only two types of Chinese -- those who give bribes and those who take them."
"Russian","There are no bad ships at all, there are bad captains."
"Russian","There are more whores in hiding than there are public ones."
"Russian","There are many fathers, but only one mother."
"Russian","The word is silver, the silence is gold."
"Russian","The woman had no problems so she bought some pigs."
"Russian","The wolf will hire himself out very cheaply as a shepherd."
"Russian","The wolf is not afraid of the sheepdog, but he is of his chain."
"Russian","The wise man says ""I am looking for truth""; and the fool, ""I have found truth."""
"Russian","There is no evil without good."
"Russian","The whole Soviet country is visible from the Kremlin."
"Russian","There is no honor when there is nothing to eat."
"Russian","The Tsar has three hands but only one ear."
"Russian","The tongue speaks, but the head doesn't know."
"Russian","The tongue always returns to the sore tooth."
"Russian","The toe of the star-gazer is often stubbed."
"Russian","The thief makes perhaps one mistake; those he stole from made a hundred."
"Russian","The thief has a chicken's heart -- he sleeps in fear."
"Russian","The teeth are not match for the nut."
"Russian","The tears of strangers are only water."
"Russian","The tallest tree is rooted in the ground."
"Russian","The tallest blade of grass is the first to be cut by the scythe."
"Russian","The sythe ran into a stone."
"Russian","The sun will shine into our yard too."
"Russian","The wife is twice precious only; when led into the house, and when taken out."
"Russian","There will be trouble if the cobbler starts making pies."
"Russian","When god will punish, he will first take away the understanding."
"Russian","Those that are afraid of bad luck will never know good."
"Russian","They wait three years for what was promised."
"Russian","They use a wedge to knock out a wedge."
"Russian","They don't swing fists when the fight is over."
"Russian","They don't hit you in the nose for asking."
"Russian","They come into the courtroom in a suit and leave with no trousers."
"Russian","They bow to you when borrowing, you bow to them when collecting."
"Russian","There's no harm in wine; it's drunkenness that is at fault."
"Russian","There's no harm in wine, it's drunkenness that is at fault."
"Russian","There's no bad without the good."
"Russian","There is more light than can be seen through the window."
"Russian","There will come a time when the seed will sprout."
"Russian","Those who love you will make you weep; those who hate you will make you laugh."
"Russian","There were people before us and there will be people after us."
"Russian","There was a time they loved an accordionist, and now the time has come where they love a tractor driver."
"Russian","There was ? there wasn't."
"Russian","There may be snow on the roof, but there's fire in the belly."
"Russian","There may be deep bottoms in still waters."
"Russian","There is plenty of sound in an empty barrel."
"Russian","There is only one good - knowledge; there is only one evil - ignorance."
"Russian","There is nothing better than a rich wife and a generous mother-in-law."
"Russian","There is no smoke without fire."
"Russian","There is no shame in not knowing -- the shame lies in not finding out."
"Russian","There is no repentance after death."
"Russian","There is no law written for fools."
"Russian","There would be no good fortune had misfortune not helped."
"Russian","You can't sew buttons on your neighbor's mouth."
"Russian","You cannot sew buttons on your neighbor's mouth."
"Russian","You cannot ride two horses with one ass."
"Russian","You cannot pull a fish out of the pond without work."
"Russian","You cannot please everybody."
"Russian","You cannot make a soft bed for everyone."
"Russian","You cannot jump higher than your head."
"Russian","You cannot hang everything on a single peg."
"Russian","You cannot drive straight on a twisting lane."
"Russian","You cannot buy wisdom abroad if there is none at home."
"Russian","You cannot build a wall with one stone."
"Russian","You cannot break through a wall with your forehead."
"Russian","When Anger and Revenge get married, their daughter is called Cruelty."
"Russian","You can't throw a handkerchief over somebody's mouth."
"Russian","You do not drink soup with a knife."
"Russian","You can't move faster than your shadow."
"Russian","You can't keep a word of thanks in your pocket."
"Russian","You can't have two forenoons in the same day."
"Russian","You can't drive straight on a twisting lane."
"Russian","You can't do everything at once."
"Russian","You can not write in the chimney with charcoal."
"Russian","You can get used to anything -- even hell."
"Russian","You can best shoot an eagle with an arrow made from its own feathers."
"Russian","You can bend an alder-tree, if you do it gradually."
"Russian","Yakov's magpie started chattering the same thing about anyone."
"Russian","Would I know where I'd fall, I'd lay some straw there ahead of time."
"Russian","You cannot break a wall with your forehead."
"Russian","You know a bird from the way he flies."
"Russian","No one can take two skins from one ox."
"Russian","Your tongue will get you to kiev."
"Russian","Your elbow is near but you can't bite it."
"Russian","Your dog wishes you a long life."
"Russian","Your body belongs to the Tsar, your soul to God, and your back to the squire."
"Russian","You would do better to sit on a powder keg than on the knee of a woman."
"Russian","You will reap what you will sow."
"Russian","You needn't be afraid of a barking dog, but you should be afraid of a silent dog."
"Russian","You need sharp axes for knotty trees."
"Russian","You need a sharp axe for a tough bough."
"Russian","You must chop down the tree that gives too much or too little shade."
"Russian","You cannot throw a word out of a song."
"Russian","You look for the horse you ride on."
"Russian","You could even hew sticks on head."
"Russian","You heard the ring, but don't know where."
"Russian","You have summer and you have winter -- why, then, be in a hurry?"
"Russian","You get used to everything -- even hell."
"Russian","You get to really know your friend when trouble comes."
"Russian","You don't milk a cow with your hands in your pockets."
"Russian","You don't learn anything from buying, but you do from selling."
"Russian","You don't get something for nothing."
"Russian","You don't get a headache from what other people have drunk."
"Russian","You do not swap horses while crossing the ford."
"Russian","You do not really understand something unless you can explain it to your grandmother."
"Russian","You do not need a whip to urge on an obedient horse."
"Russian","Work is unlike wolf; it won't run to the woods."
"Russian","You may call me even a pot, just don't put me into the oven."
"Russian","When the task accomplished, feel free to take a walk."
"Russian","Worship the gods of where you live."
"Russian","Whether an owl with a stump, or a stump with an owl."
"Russian","Where you saw wood, there the sawdust will fall."
"Russian","Where something is thin, that's where it tears."
"Russian","Where necessity speaks it demands."
"Russian","When you meet a man, you judge him by his clothes; when you leave, you judge him by his heart."
"Russian","When you meet a man judge him by his clothes, when you leave a man judge him by his heart."
"Russian","When you live next to the cemetery you cannot weep for everyone."
"Russian","When you are in a pack of hounds, you either bark or wag your tail."
"Russian","When wood is chopped, woodchips will fly."
"Russian","When we sing everybody hears us; when we sigh, nobody hears us."
"Russian","Who drinks till bottom, lives without mind."
"Russian","When the Tsar sins the Empire must do penance."
"Russian","Who falls in the water will hold on to the foam to save himself."
"Russian","When the fight's over, don't wave your fists."
"Russian","When the Czar has a cold all Russia coughs."
"Russian","When night falls the face of the wolf lights up."
"Russian","When necessity speaks, it demands."
"Russian","When money talks, then truth stays silent."
"Russian","When money talks, the truth is silent."
"Russian","When money speaks, the truth keeps silent."
"Russian","When money speaks the truth is silent."
"Russian","When misers die, children open up their coffers."
"Russian","When masters are fighting, their servants' forelocks are creaking."
"Russian","When he mounts his horse he forgets God; when he dismounts, he forgets his horse."
"Russian","When gold speaks, everything else is silent."
"Russian","When the wine is run out, you stop the leak."
"Russian","Will heal before wedding."
"Russian","The wise man boasts of his goods and wares; the foolish one of his young wife."
"Russian","Work is afraid of a skilled worker."
"Russian","Word is not a sparrow: flies out, can't catch it."
"Russian","Wolf in sheep's clothing."
"Russian","Without the shepherd, sheep are not a flock."
"Russian","Without stooping down for the mushroom, you cannot put it in your basket."
"Russian","Without a fertilizer, there couldn't be any plants."
"Russian","Without a cat mice have no restrictions."
"Russian","With seven nurses the child loses its eye."
"Russian","With lies you may go ahead in the world--but you can never go back."
"Russian","With a piece of bread in your hand you'll find paradise under a pine tree."
"Russian","Whether you hit an owl with a stump, or a stump with an owl."
"Russian","Wine bears no blame -- only the drunkard."
"Russian","Work makes you into a hunchback and then rich."
"Russian","Wild ducks and tomorrow both come without calling."
"Russian","Why marry, when your neighbor's wife is ready to go to bed with you?"
"Russian","Whoever wants honey must breed bees."
"Russian","Who wasn't out in the sea, didn't pray to God."
"Russian","Who wasn't [out] in the sea, didn't pray to God."
"Russian","Who wants heat, must endure the smoke."
"Russian","Who talks little hears better."
"Russian","Who reminds old, will be deprived of his eye."
"Russian","Who owns the bank owns the fish."
"Russian","Who lives in exile finds that spring has no charm."
"Russian","Who is brave eats two."
"Russian","Who have not been there - he will be, who have been - will not forget."
"Russian","Wisdom is born; stupidity is learned."
"Russian","Poverty is a sin that the rich never forgive."
"Russian","Only he who does nothing makes no mistakes."
"Russian","Rain falls alike on the just and the unjust."
"Russian","Pull out the beak and the tail gets stuck, pull out the tail and the beak gets stuck."
"Russian","Proverbs are the people's wisdom."
"Russian","Praying kneads no dough."
"Russian","Pray to God, but keep rowing to the shore."
"Russian","Pray to God, but keep on rowing to the shore."
"Russian","Pray to God, but be level-headed."
"Russian","Pray to God but continue to row to the shore."
"Russian","Pray for revenge, and God will turn a deaf ear."
"Russian","Praise a fair day at night."
"Russian","Regretting the past is like chasing after the wind."
"Russian","Poverty is crafty."
"Russian","Reperition is a mother of learning."
"Russian","Politics is a rotten egg; if broken, it stinks."
"Russian","Plan your life as though you were going to live forever, but live today as if you were going to die tomorrow."
"Russian","Peace lasts until the army comes, and the army lasts until peace comes."
"Russian","Peace lasts till the army comes, and the army lasts till peace comes."
"Russian","Peace and harmony is great treasure."
"Russian","Partnership is an invention of the devil."
"Russian","Paper is patient - you can put anything on it."
"Russian","Overseas, a cow costs a quarter of kopeck, but it will cost a rouble to ship it here."
"Russian","Overseas, a cow a quarter of kopeck, but a rouble to ship."
"Russian","Out of eyesight ? out of heart."
"Russian","Our eyes are our enemies."
"Russian","Sorrow doesn't kill, but it blights."
"Russian","Poverty is not a sin, it's worse than that."
"Russian","Shoot a daw and a crow, and soon you'll hit a falcon."
"Russian","Something well cared for lasts two centuries."
"Russian","Some people are masters of money, and some people are slaves of it."
"Russian","Some people are masters of money, and some people are slaves of it."
"Russian","Soap is grey but it used to be white."
"Russian","So the man, so his shadow."
"Russian","Smooth hands love the labor of others."
"Russian","Small gifts go to places where men expect bigger ones."
"Russian","Small faults indulged in are little thieves that let in greater."
"Russian","Small choice in rotten apples."
"Russian","Small children give you headache; big children give you heartache."
"Russian","Sit a beggar at your table and he will soon put his feet on it."
"Russian","Rather a bitter truth than a sweet lie."
"Russian","Single in a field is not a warrior."
"Russian","Only death will cure the hunchback."
"Russian","The sooner you get in, the sooner you get out."
"Russian","Seven people don't wait for one."
"Russian","The wolf can always be hired very cheap as a shepherd."
"Russian","Seven don't wait for one."
"Russian","Seek the brave in prison and the stupid among the clergy."
"Russian","Seeing the Kremlin stars - going forward braver."
"Russian","Russia was tsarist - became proletarian."
"Russian","Running away is not glorious, but often very healthy."
"Russian","Rotten straw can harm a healthy horse."
"Russian","Rooster today, feather duster tomorrow."
"Russian","Ride slower - you'll get further."
"Russian","Ride slower - get further."
"Russian","Single man in a field is not a warrior."
"Russian","Old age is not a joy, but death is not a gain."
"Russian","Other people's money has sharp teeth."
"Russian","One does not look for good when he is well."
"Russian","One does not go to Tula with one's own samovar."
"Russian","One day before you is better than ten years behind you."
"Russian","One cannot make a fur coat from a ""Thank you."""
"Russian","One can't spoil porridge with butter."
"Russian","One can't break an axe with a whip."
"Russian","One can get sick of cake, but never of bread."
"Russian","One can even get used to living hell."
"Russian","Once you have fallen into the water, you're not scared of water any more."
"Russian","Once burned by milk you will blow on cold water."
"Russian","One does not sharpen the axes after the right time; after the time they are needed."
"Russian","On a fishing lull, even a crayfish is fish."
"Russian","One does not wash one's dirty linen in public."
"Russian","Old age is not a blessing."
"Russian","Nothing is worse than waiting or chasing."
"Russian","Not for village, not for town."
"Russian","Not everything is a mermaid that dives into the water."
"Russian","Not everyone who has a cowl on is a monk."
"Russian","Not every glittering thing is gold."
"Russian","Not all who make love make marriages."
"Russian","Nosy Barbara's nose was torn off at the market."
"Russian","Nobody goes to Tula with one's own samovar."
"Russian","Nobody goes to another monastery with one's own charter."
"Russian","No year has two summers."
"Russian","No one knows how the poor man dines."
"Russian","On an empty belly every burden is heavy."
"Russian","One never tires working for oneself."
"Russian","Only chained bears dance."
"Russian","Only a fool will make a doctor his heir."
"Russian","Onion treats seven ailments."
"Russian","One would like to eat honey, but would not like to get stung."
"Russian","One would like to eat fish, but would not like to get into the water."
"Russian","One with a plow ? seven with a spoon."
"Russian","One who sits between two chairs may easily fall down."
"Russian","One who seeks no friends is his own enemy."
"Russian","One stupid woman recognizes another one from a distance."
"Russian","One sprinkles the most sugar where the tart is burnt."
"Russian","One son is no son, two sons is no son, but three sons is a son."
"Russian","One does not regret giving one's own ear-ring to one's dear friend."
"Russian","One road for the fugitive and a hundred for the pursuer."
"Russian","Shame is worse than death."
"Russian","One naturally prefers one's own kind."
"Russian","One may make up a soft bed for somebody, but still it will be hard to sleep in."
"Russian","One man in a field is not a warrior."
"Russian","One is wiser in the morning than in the evening."
"Russian","One is received according to one's dress and sent off according to one's wit."
"Russian","One is one's own master on one's own stove."
"Russian","One is not a thief unless caught stealing."
"Russian","One good daughter is worth seven sons."
"Russian","One fisherman sees another from afar."
"Russian","One fisherman recognizes another from afar."
"Russian","One fisherman knows another from afar."
"Russian","One doesn't bring samovars to tula."
"Russian","One rotten beam can make a whole house collapse."
"Russian","The hearth in our house is warmer than our neighbor's."
"Russian","The naked don't fear robbery."
"Russian","The morning sun never lasts a day."
"Russian","The morning is wiser than the evening."
"Russian","The more you know the less will you sleep."
"Russian","The moon gives us light but no heat."
"Russian","The man is the flame, the woman the glow."
"Russian","The lucky man's enemy dies, and the unlucky man's friend."
"Russian","Seven nannies make a one-eyed kid."
"Russian","The less you know, the more soundly you sleep."
"Russian","Spending is quick, earning is slow."
"Russian","The horses of hope gallop, but the asses of experience go slowly."
"Russian","The fall of the leaf; is a whisper to the living."
"Russian","The horse loves oats; the earth, manure; and the governor, tribute."
"Russian","The night's too short to warrant marrying poor."
"Russian","The hammer shatters glass but hardens steel."
"Russian","The greatest king must at last be put to bed with a shovel."
"Russian","The future is for those who know how to wait."
"Russian","The fish always stinks from the head downwards."
"Russian","The first snow does not mean winter, nor the first love marriage."
"Russian","The first pancake is always a failure."
"Russian","The first pancake is a blob."
"Russian","The first goes as a stake, the second as a falcon, and the third as a little bird."
"Russian","The first blin always turns out lumpy."
"Russian","The first [cup of vodka] goes as a stake, the second as a falcon, and the third as a little bird."
"Russian","The fathers ate the cranberries and the children are left with the aftertaste."
"Russian","The horse may run quickly, but it can't escape its own tail."
"Russian","The poorer, the more generous."
"Russian","The sober man's secret is the drunkard's speech."
"Russian","The sluggard will not plough by reason of the cold; therefore shall he beg in harvest, and have nothing."
"Russian","The slower you go, the farther you will be."
"Russian","The shovel insults the poker."
"Russian","The scythe ran into a stone."
"Russian","The scythe has hit a stone."
"Russian","The sat one doesn't understand the hungry one: for one the soup is too thin, for the other - the pearls are too small."
"Russian","The same hammer that breaks the glass forges the steel."
"Russian","The river's reputation ends where the sea begins."
"Russian","The river is flat but the banks are steep."
"Russian","The riches that are in the heart cannot be stolen."
"Russian","The newborn baby yells; you die in silence."
"Russian","The reserve doesn't weight your pocket."
"Russian","The night walks the same road as the dream."
"Russian","The person afraid of bad luck will never know good."
"Russian","The peasant will not cross himself before it begins to thunder."
"Russian","The peasant sweats and the nobleman is always right."
"Russian","The payment adorns the debt."
"Russian","The past is for God, the future for the Tsars."
"Russian","The one who pulls a cart is urged on."
"Russian","The one who draws the cart is urged on."
"Russian","The old bear falls into the old trap."
"Russian","The offender never forgives."
"Russian","The noblemen's quarrels can be read on the backs of the peasants."
"Russian","The nights are short for him who married late in life."
"Russian","The lambskin is not worth the currying."
"Russian","The rich would have to eat money if the poor did not provide food."
"Russian","The fall of a leaf is a whisper to the living."
"Russian","Thanks to one small candle the whole of Moscow burns."
"Russian","Tell me who's your friend and I'll tell you who you are."
"Russian","Tell me who your friends are and i'll tell you who you are."
"Russian","Tell lies, but become not tangled in lies."
"Russian","Tell God the truth, but give the judge money."
"Russian","Tell God the truth, but give money to the judge."
"Russian","Tears come more often from the eyes than from the heart."
"Russian","Tastes are not argued."
"Russian","Take together, it will not be heavy."
"Russian","Take time when time is, for time will away."
"Russian","Take time to smell the roses."
"Russian","That's the snag!."
"Russian","Take the goods the gods provide."
"Russian","Take the bull by the horns."
"Russian","Take care of your dress from when it's new and your honor from your youth."
"Russian","The lonely person is at home everywhere."
"Russian","Take a man at his word, an ox by the horns."
"Russian","Success has many fathers, while failure is an orphan."
"Russian","Success consecrates the foulest crimes."
"Russian","Success and rest don't sleep together."
"Russian","Strike while the iron is hot."
"Russian","Stretch your legs according to your clothes."
"Russian","Stormy weather cannot stay all the time, the red sun will come out, too."
"Russian","Still waters are inhibited by devils."
"Russian","Still water undermines the bank."
"Russian","Spent as earned."
"Russian","Take thy thoughts to bed with thee, for the morning is wiser than the evening."
"Russian","The church is near but the road is icy; the bar is far away but I'll walk carefully."
"Russian","Take care of clothes since they are new, take care of your honor since you are young."
"Russian","That's where the dog is buried."
"Russian","The empty vessel makes the greatest sound."
"Russian","The elbow is near, but try and bite it."
"Russian","The dog learns to swim when the water reaches his ears."
"Russian","The devil is not so frighful as he is painted."
"Russian","The devil is not as scary as they paint him."
"Russian","The cub does not teach the Wolf."
"Russian","The coat is quite new, only the holes are old."
"Russian","The cat with cream on her whiskers should have a good excuse ready."
"Russian","The cat knows who's meat it has eaten."
"Russian","The castle gates will always open for gold-laden donkeys."
"Russian","The casket opened simple."
"Russian","The apple doesn't fall far away from the apple-tree."
"Russian","That's, Grandma, the Yuri's Day."
"Russian","The appetite comes during a meal."
"Russian","The crow flew over the sea but returned still a crow."
"Russian","The appetite comes with eating."
"Russian","The casket opened in a simple way."
"Russian","The bear dances but the tamer collects the money."
"Russian","The beautiful is less what one sees than what one dreams."
"Russian","The belly is like a judge that is silent yet still asks questions."
"Russian","The cart is still there."
"Russian","The boss is always right."
"Russian","The end is the crown of any work."
"Russian","The calmer you go, the further along you will be."
"Russian","The blind cannot see -- the proud will not."
"Rwanda","People helping one another can bring an elephant into the house."
"Rwandan","In a court of fowls, the cockroach never wins his case."
"Rwandan","In a fiddler's house, all are dancers."
"Rwandan","You can outdistance that which is running after you, but not what is running inside you."
"Rwandan","You can take a horse to water, but you can't make him drink."
"Rwandan","You can take the boy out of the country but you can't take the country out of the boy."
"Rwandan","The rich man never dances badly."
"Rwandan","What itches in the daughter's skirt, itches also in her mother's."
"Rwandan","When in someone else's home leave your defects at the door."
"Rwandan","When the child falls the mother weeps; when the mother falls the child laughs."
"Rwandan","When the leopard is away, his cubs are eaten."
"Rwandan","When your beard appears, childhood disappears."
"Rwandan","You can take a horse to water, but you can't make him drink."
"Rwandan","You set the trap when the rat has gone."
"Rwandan","You can take the boy out of the country but you can't take the country out of the boy."
"Rwandan","A man's heart is not a sack open to all."
"Rwandan","The most extensive land is the human belly."
"Rwandan","You can outdistance that which is running after you, but not what is running inside you."
"Rwandan","Hens keep quiet when the cock is around."
"Rwandan","He who has travelled alone can tell what he likes."
"Rwandan","Pregnancy and fire cannot be kept secret."
"Rwandan","Help from abroad always comes when the rain has stopped."
"Rwandan","A girl only gets pregnant once."
"Rwandan","If you are building a house and a nail breaks, do you stop building, or do you change the nail?"
"Rwandan","If you shake a dog, you shake his owner."
"Rwandan","If your mouth turns into a knife, it will cut off your lips."
"Rwandan","In a court of fowls, the cockroach never wins his case."
"Rwandan","In a fiddler's house, all are dancers."
"Rwandan","Only God generates, man only educates."
"Rwandan","Every cackling hen was an egg at first."
"Rwandese","The more you see, the more you understand."
"Rwandese","It is only when someone kills a madman that people will know he has relatives."
"Rwandese","Nobody hates himself more than he who hates others."
"Rwandese","Real fraternity is not about blood, it is about sharing."
"Rwandese","The night might be long, but whether you want it or not, the day will announce itself."
"Rwandese","Truth never rots."
"Rwandese","When you bear a grudge, your child will also bear a grudge."
"Rwandese","You hide the fact you hate me; I hide the fact I know."
"Rwandese","Rain falls on everyone, but one person gets wetter than the rest."
"Rwandese","If you teach a Hutu in flinging a spear he will definitely send it into your stomach."
"Rwandese","A hoe made small from loving work came to visit and together we cultivated our relationship. When united everything is possible."
"Rwandese","If you call a piece of wood 'child', you can never use it to light fire since it has become so precious."
"Rwandese","If we remember the quarrels and mistakes of yesterday, we will never have someone to party together with us."
"Rwandese","God spends the day elsewhere, but he always spends the night in Rwanda."
"Rwandese","If you care for healing the tooth of a Tutsi that he recovers, he will surely bite you to-morrow."
"Rwandese","From the word of an elder is derived a bone."
"Rwandese","The guest is always the prisoner of the host."
"Rwandese","Even if an animal comes to you for protection, you give it sanctuary."
"Rwandese","Close the door and beat the dog."
"Rwandese","A stone that is visible cannot destroy a hoe."
"Rwandese","A large eye does not mean keen vision."
"Rwandese","A friend who visits you when you are suffering is your best friend."
"Salvadoran","Better to prevent than regret."
"Salvadoran","Where there is life, there is also hope."
"Samoan","The person with burnt fingers asks for tongs."
"Samoan","Sin is carried in the mouth."
"Samoan","The grasshopper flies about, but the kingfisher watches him."
"Samoan","Your highness's blow cannot be parried."
"Samoan","You shake in vain the branch that bears no fruit."
"Samoan","The person with burnt fingers asks for tongs."
"Samoan","The person with burned fingers asks for tongs."
"Samoan","The knee feels the tapping."
"Samoan","The fault was committed in the bush, but it is now talked about on the highway."
"Samoan","The careless fish will be eaten by the shark."
"Samoan","Stones decay; words last."
"Samoan","Sit and wait for the good chestnuts."
"Samoan","Gather the breadfruit from the farthest branches first."
"Samoan","Persevere like a bird in the wind."
"Samoan","The person who has burned their fingers often asks for tongs."
"Samoan","Blessed is the moon; it goes but it comes back again."
"Samoan","First friends, then broken heads."
"Samoan","From the direction of the wind."
"Samoan","Let each do his share of the work."
"Samoan","A decision made at night may be changed in the morning."
"Samoan","Let the crab take counsel with its leg."
"Samoan","Like a fish, one should look for a hole in the net."
"Samoan","May it end with threats and not come to blows."
"Samoan","Only the snake looks at its slayer."
"Samurai","To know and to act are one and the same."
"Samurai","To know and to act are one and the same."
"Sanskrit","People searching for other peoples faults often do not know their own. "
"Sanskrit","Something done at the wrong time should be considered not done. "
"Sanskrit","Sorrow for the death of a father lasts six months; sorrow for a mother, a year; sorrow for a wife, until another wife; sorrow for a son, forever."
"Sanskrit","Wind sweeps the street clean. "
"Sanskrit","If you gently touch a nettle it'll sting you for your pains; grasp it like a lad of mettle, an' as soft as silk remains."
"Sanskrit","The greatest hero is the person who controls his desires. "
"Sanskrit","If you forsake a certainty and depend on an uncertainty, you will lose both the certainty and the uncertainty."
"Sanskrit","If you forsake a certainty for an uncertainty, you will lose both the certainty and the uncertainty."
"Sanskrit","A woman's appetite is twice that of a man's; her sexual desire, four times; her intelligence, eight times."
"Sanskrit","He who allows his day to pass by without practicing generosity and enjoying life's pleasures is like a blacksmith's bellows: he breathes but does not live."
"Sanskrit","All we can hold in our cold dead hands is what we have given away."
"Sanskrit","You cant cook one half of a chicken and expect the other half to lay eggs. "
"Sanskrit","Yesterday is but a dream, tomorrow but a vision. But today well lived makes every yesterday a dream of happiness, and every tomorrow a vision of hope. Look well, therefore, to this day."
"Sanskrit","If you forsake a certainty for an uncertainty, you will lose both the certainty and the uncertainty."
"Sanskrit","If you forsake a certainty and depend on an uncertainty, you will lose both the certainty and the uncertainty."
"Sanskrit","If you gently touch a nettle it'll sting you for your pains; grasp it like a lad of mettle, an' as soft as silk remains."
"Sanskrit","Yesterday is but a dream, tomorrow is but a vision. But today well lived makes every yesterday a dream of happiness, and every tomorrow a vision of hope. Look well, therefore, to This Day."
"Sanskrit","Dharma, when protected, protects."
"Sanskrit","All we can hold in our cold dead hands is what we have given away."
"Sanskrit","A woman's appetite is twice that of a man's; her sexual desire, four times; her intelligence, eight times."
"Sanskrit","He who allows his day to pass by without practicing generosity and enjoying life's pleasures is like a blacksmith's bellows. He breathes, but does not live."
"Sanskrit","Sorrow for the death of a father lasts six months; sorrow for a mother, a year; sorrow for a wife, until another wife; sorrow for a son, forever."
"Saudi","If the camel once get his nose in a tent, the body will soon follow."
"Saudi","If the cap fits, wear it."
"Saudi","If the camel once get his nose in a tent, the body will soon follow."
"Saudi","If the cap fits, wear it."
"Saudi Arabian","If the camel once gets his nose in a tent, his body will soon follow."
"Savoyard","I have so much to do that I am going to bed."
"Savoyard","I have so much to do that I am going to bed."
"Scandanavian","Go often to the house of a friend; for weeds soon choke up the unused path."
"Scandanavian","It is the great north wind that made the Vikings."
"Scandanavian","It is the last straw that breaks the camel's back."
"Scandanavian","Go often to the house of a friend; for weeds soon choke up the unused path."
"Scandanavian","It is the great north wind that made the Vikings."
"Scandinavian","Go often to the house of a friend; for weeds soon choke up the unused path."
"Scandinavian","It is the last straw that breaks the camel's back."
"Scandinavian","Go often to the house of thy friend; for weeds soon choke up the unused path."
"Scandinavian","It is the great north wind that made the Vikings."
"Scanian","She would be a nice girl if she didn't have her head."
"Scanian","I'll come again, said the woman who got caught in wing of the windmill."
"Scanian","You shouldn't eat valium before going out."
"Scanian","The medicine that cures the tailor can kill the shoemaker."
"Scanian","The mare of the smith and the children of the shoemaker, allways goes barefooted."
"Scanian","The goose is too small for two but too big for one."
"Scanian","The food is half the provisions, the rest is herring and potatoes."
"Scanian","Tasty food, plenty of food, food in the right time - and peace at mealtimes."
"Scanian","A scanian is only swedish during the icehockey world championships."
"Scanian","Out of all cookery, the coffee laced with schnapps is the best."
"Scanian","A youngster can ask further than an aged has been."
"Scanian","After the meal, one has to be still and shut the eyes for a while in the gloom."
"Scanian","Eat and take belly, because tomorrow the assistant of the executioner will come to take the skin."
"Scanian","It's too late to rise early when you wake eleven o'clock."
"Scanian","Dead man is hard to wake."
"Schambala","The cultivator is alone, but those who eat are many."
"Schambala","Where the rooster crows there is a village."
"Scotch","He behoves to have meal enou, that sal stop ilka man's mou'."
"Scotch","He braks my head, an' syne puts on my hoo."
"Scotch","Meikle crack fills nae sack."
"Scotch","Ane's ain hearth is goud's worth."
"Scotch","Mister makes men of craft."
"Scotch","Mint, ere ye strike."
"Scotch","Millers take ay the best Multar with their own Hand."
"Scotch","Man propones, but God dispones."
"Scotch","Might oftentimes overcomes right."
"Scotch","Many Aunts, many Eames, many kin, and few friends."
"Scotch","Mickle Water runs, where the Miller sleeps."
"Scotch","Men may buy Gold over dear."
"Scotch","Mends is worth misdeeds."
"Scotch","Nature passes Nurture."
"Scotch","Men goes over the dike at the laichest."
"Scotch","Messengers should neither be headed nor hanged."
"Scotch","Misterfull folk must not be mensfull."
"Scotch","Musle not the Oxens mouth."
"Scotch","Men are blind in their own cause."
"Scotch","Na man can both sup and blow together."
"Scotch","Meat makes, and clothes shapes, but manners makes a man."
"Scotch","Need gars naked men run, and sorrow gars Websters spin."
"Scotch","Need hes no law."
"Scotch","Need makes Virtue."
"Scotch","Neir is the Kirtle, but neirer is the Sark."
"Scotch","Neirest the heart, neirest the mouth."
"Scotch","Neirest the King, neirest the Widdie."
"Scotch","Neirest to the Kirk, farthest fra God."
"Scotch","Mustard after meat."
"Scotch","Many speaks of Robin Hood, that never shot in his Bow."
"Scotch","Poor men are fain of little thing."
"Scotch","Many brings the rake, but few the shovel."
"Scotch","Many cares for meal that has baken bread enough."
"Scotch","Many do lack, that yet would fain have in their pack."
"Scotch","Many hands makes light work."
"Scotch","Many irons in the fire, pare must cool."
"Scotch","Many maisters, quoth the Poddock to the Harrow, when every tind took her a knock."
"Scotch","Many man makes an errand to the hall to bid the Lady good-day."
"Scotch","Many man serves a thanklesse master."
"Scotch","Many man speirs the gate he kens full well."
"Scotch","Meikle has, would ay have more."
"Scotch","Many smalls makes a great."
"Scotch","Meikle spoken, part must spill."
"Scotch","Many tines the half-mark whinger for the half-penny whang."
"Scotch","Many words fills not the furlot."
"Scotch","Many words would have meikle drink."
"Scotch","March Whisquer was never a good Fisher."
"Scotch","Measure, is Treasure."
"Scotch","Meat and Masse, never hindred man."
"Scotch","Meat is good, but Mense is better."
"Scotch","Never rade, never fell."
"Scotch","Meikle crack fills nae sack."
"Scotch","Meikle Head, little Wit."
"Scotch","Meikle must a good heart thole."
"Scotch","Many purses holds friends together."
"Scotch","Preists and Doves, make foul houses."
"Scotch","Play with your peers."
"Scotch","Painters and Poets may have leave to lie."
"Scotch","Patience perforce."
"Scotch","Penny wise, pound fool."
"Scotch","Peter in, and Paul out."
"Scotch","Pith is good in all Playes."
"Scotch","Make not twa mewes of ane daughter."
"Scotch","Plenty, is na Dainty."
"Scotch","Laith to the drink, laith fra it."
"Scotch","Poor men have no souls."
"Scotch","Over meikle of any thing is good for nothing."
"Scotch","Poverty parts good company, and is an enemy to vertue."
"Scotch","Over jolly dow not."
"Scotch","Pride and sweirnesse would have meikle upholding."
"Scotch","Pride will have a fall."
"Scotch","Provision in season makes a rich meason."
"Scotch","Puddings and Paramours would be hotly handled."
"Scotch","Put a begger on horseback, and he will ride fast, or else break his neck."
"Scotch","Put not your hand betwixt the rind and the Tree."
"Scotch","Put that in the next few."
"Scotch","Put twa half-pennies in a purse, and they will draw together."
"Scotch","Put your hand into the creel, and you will get either an adder, or an Eele."
"Scotch","Put your hand no farther nor your sleeve may reek."
"Scotch","Qhuen thieves reckons, leal men comes to their geir."
"Scotch","Possession is worth an ill chartour."
"Scotch","Of ill Debtois men takes Oattes."
"Scotch","No man can play the fool so well as the wise man."
"Scotch","No man can seek his marrow in the Kirn, so weil as he that hes bin in it himself."
"Scotch","No man makes his own hap."
"Scotch","No man may puind for unkindnesse."
"Scotch","No penny, no pardon."
"Scotch","No plea is best."
"Scotch","Nothing comes sooner to light, than that which is long hid."
"Scotch","Nothing enters a close Hand."
"Scotch","Nothing is difficile to a weill willed man."
"Scotch","Of all War, Peace is the final end."
"Scotch","Over narrow counting culzies no kindnesse."
"Scotch","Of enough, men leave."
"Scotch","New Lords, new Laws."
"Scotch","Of need make Virtue."
"Scotch","Of other mens leather, men take large whangs."
"Scotch","Of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh."
"Scotch","Of the Earth mon the dike be biggit."
"Scotch","Of two ills choose the least."
"Scotch","Oft counting makes good friends."
"Scotch","Out of sight, out of langer."
"Scotch","Over fast, over loose."
"Scotch","Over great familiarity genders despight."
"Scotch","Over high, over laigh."
"Scotch","Over hot, over cold."
"Scotch","Of ane ill comes many."
"Scotch","It is not the habit that makes the Monck."
"Scotch","It is hard to wive and thrive in a year."
"Scotch","It is ill to bring but the thing that is not thereben."
"Scotch","It is ill to bring out of the flesh that is bred in the bene."
"Scotch","It is ill to draw a strea before an old Cat."
"Scotch","It is ill to make a bowing horn of a tods tail."
"Scotch","It is ill to waken sleeping dogs."
"Scotch","It is kindly that the poke fair of the Herring."
"Scotch","It is little of God's might, to make a poor man a Knight."
"Scotch","It is na mair pitty to see a Woman greit, nor to see a Goose go barefoot."
"Scotch","It is na play where ane greits, and another laughs."
"Scotch","It's a fair dung bairn that dare not greit."
"Scotch","It is not good to want, and to have."
"Scotch","It is good mows that fills the wemb."
"Scotch","It is not tint that is done to friends."
"Scotch","It is short while seen the louse boore the langelt."
"Scotch","It is true that all men sayes."
"Scotch","It is weil warit that wasters warn geir."
"Scotch","It is weil warit they have sorrow, that buyes it with their silver."
"Scotch","It is well said, but who will bell the Cat?"
"Scotch","It that God will give, the Devil cannot reave."
"Scotch","It that lies not in your gate, breaks not your shins."
"Scotch","It will be an ill web to bleitch."
"Scotch","It will come in an hour, that will not come in a year."
"Scotch","Lata is long and dreigh."
"Scotch","It is na time to stoup when the head is off."
"Scotch","It is a sin to lye on the Devil."
"Scotch","Ill win, ill warit."
"Scotch","In a good time I speak it, in a better I leave it."
"Scotch","In some mens aught mon the old horse die."
"Scotch","In space, comes Grace."
"Scotch","It goes as meiklle in his heart, as in his heel."
"Scotch","It goes in at one ear, and out at the other."
"Scotch","It is a bare Moor that he goes over, and gets not a Cow."
"Scotch","It is a fair feild where all are dung down."
"Scotch","It is a fairy brewing that is not good in the newing."
"Scotch","It is a fairy collop that is tane off a Capon."
"Scotch","It is a good Goose that drops ay."
"Scotch","It is hard to fling at the brod, or kick at the prick."
"Scotch","It is a silly flock where the yow bears the bell."
"Scotch","It is good sleeping in a heal skin."
"Scotch","It is a sooth board that men sees wakin."
"Scotch","It is as meet as a Sow to bear a Saddle."
"Scotch","It is as meet as a thief for the widdie."
"Scotch","It is dear bought honey that is lickt off a thorn."
"Scotch","It is eich to cry yule on another man's cost;"
"Scotch","It is eith till, that the awn self will."
"Scotch","It is eith to swim where the head is hild up."
"Scotch","It is fair in the hall, when beards wag all."
"Scotch","It is good baking besides meal."
"Scotch","It is good fishing in drumbling waters."
"Scotch","It's a silly pack that may not pay the custom."
"Scotch","It is a pain both to pay and pray."
"Scotch","Long ere you cut Falkland-wood with a Pen-knife."
"Scotch","Like draws to like, a skabbed Horse to an old dyke."
"Scotch","Like to die mends not the Kirkyard."
"Scotch","Liked geir is half bought."
"Scotch","Likely lies in the mire, and unlikely goes by it."
"Scotch","Lips go, laps go, he that eats, let him pay."
"Scotch","Little intermitting makes good friends."
"Scotch","Little kens the wife that sits by the fire, how the wind blows cold in hurle-burle swyre."
"Scotch","Little may an old Horse do, if he may not neigh."
"Scotch","Little troubles the eye, but far lesse the soul."
"Scotch","Little wit makes meikle travel."
"Scotch","It's a cold coal to blow at."
"Scotch","Livelesse, faultlesse."
"Scotch","Light supper makes long life."
"Scotch","Long lean wakes hameald cattell."
"Scotch","Long standing, and little offering, makes a poor price."
"Scotch","Long tarrowing takes all the thank away."
"Scotch","Lordships changes manners."
"Scotch","Love hes no lack."
"Scotch","Love me little, and love me long."
"Scotch","Love me, love my dog."
"Scotch","Lucke and bone voyage."
"Scotch","Maidens should be meek while they be married."
"Scotch","Maistery mowes the Meadows down."
"Scotch","Make no balks of good beerland."
"Scotch","Live, and let live."
"Scotch","Lads will be men."
"Scotch","It's tint that is done to old men and bairns."
"Scotch","Kail spares bread."
"Scotch","Kame single, kame fair."
"Scotch","Kamesters are ay creeshie."
"Scotch","Kindnesse cannot be bought for geir."
"Scotch","Kindnesse comes of will."
"Scotch","Kindnesse lies not ay in ane side of the house."
"Scotch","Kindnesse will creep where it may not gang."
"Scotch","Kings and Bears oft worries their Keepers."
"Scotch","Kings are out of play."
"Scotch","Kings caff is worth other mens corn."
"Scotch","Lightly comes, lightly goes."
"Scotch","Knowledge is eith born about."
"Scotch","Light winning makes a heavy purse."
"Scotch","Laith to bed, laith out of it."
"Scotch","Saw thin, and maw thin."
"Scotch","Last in bed, best heard."
"Scotch","Quha may hold that will away?"
"Scotch","Laugh, and lay down again."
"Scotch","Lear young, lear fair."
"Scotch","Leave the Court, ere the Court leave thee."
"Scotch","Let alone makes many lurden."
"Scotch","Let him drink as he hes browen."
"Scotch","Let them that are cold blow at the coal."
"Scotch","Make not meikle of little."
"Scotch","Kings have a long ears."
"Scotch","Thy tongue is no slander."
"Scotch","There are many sooth words spoken in bourding."
"Scotch","They put at the Cairt, that is ay gangan."
"Scotch","They that speirs meikle will get wot of part."
"Scotch","They were never fain that fidgit."
"Scotch","They will know by an half-penny if a Preist will take offering."
"Scotch","This bolt came never out of your bag."
"Scotch","This world will not last ay."
"Scotch","Thou shouldst not tell thy foe when thy foot sleeps."
"Scotch","Thou wilt get no more of the cat, but the skin."
"Scotch","Thraw the wand while it is green."
"Scotch","They laugh ay that wins."
"Scotch","Thy Thumb is under my Belt."
"Scotch","They had never an ill day, that had a good evening."
"Scotch","Tide and time, bides na man."
"Scotch","Time tries the truth."
"Scotch","Touch a gall'd Horse on the back and he will fling."
"Scotch","Touch me not on the fair heel."
"Scotch","Tread on a Worm and she will stir her tail."
"Scotch","Trot mother, trot father, how should the foal amble?"
"Scotch","True love kythes in time of need."
"Scotch","Twa Daughters, and a back-door, are three stark thieves."
"Scotch","Twa hungry meltithes makes the third a glutton."
"Scotch","Twa wits is better nor ane."
"Scotch","Two fools in ane house, is over many."
"Scotch","Three may keep counsel if twa be away."
"Scotch","There is no medicine for fear."
"Scotch","Sain you will fra the Devil, and the Lairds bairns."
"Scotch","There came never ill of good Advisement."
"Scotch","There is a dog in the well."
"Scotch","There is little sap in dry peis hools."
"Scotch","There is little to the rake to get after the beisome."
"Scotch","There is many a fair thing full false."
"Scotch","There is meikle between word and deed."
"Scotch","There is meikle hid meat in a Goose eye."
"Scotch","There is na man so deaf as he that will not hear."
"Scotch","There is na thief without a Resetter."
"Scotch","They mense little the mouth, that bites off the nose."
"Scotch","There is no friend, to a friend in mister."
"Scotch","Use makes perfectnesse."
"Scotch","There is none without a fault."
"Scotch","There is nothing mair precious nor time."
"Scotch","There is nothing so crouse, as a new washen louse."
"Scotch","There is remead for all things but starke dead."
"Scotch","There was never a Cake, but it had a make."
"Scotch","There was never a fair word in flyting."
"Scotch","They are as wife, as speir not."
"Scotch","They are good willy of their Horse that hes none."
"Scotch","They are lightly herrite, that hes all their awn."
"Scotch","They are welcome that brings."
"Scotch","They buy good cheap that brings nothing hame."
"Scotch","There is no fool to an old fool."
"Scotch","Ye seek grace at a gracelesse face."
"Scotch","Ye breed of the cat, ye would fain have fish, but ye have na will to wet your feet."
"Scotch","Ye breed of the gouk, ye have not a rime but ane."
"Scotch","Ye breed of the Millers dog, ye lick your lips ere the poke be open."
"Scotch","Ye cannot make a silk purse of a sows lug."
"Scotch","Ye drive a Snail to Rome."
"Scotch","Ye have a face to God, and another to the Devil."
"Scotch","Ye have a ready mouth for a ripe cherry."
"Scotch","Ye learn your Father to get bairns."
"Scotch","Ye may drink of the burn, but not bite of the brae."
"Scotch","Ye may not sit in Rome, and strive with the Pope."
"Scotch","Two Wolves may worry ane Sheep."
"Scotch","Ye ride a bootlesse errand."
"Scotch","Wrang hearing makes wrang rehearsing."
"Scotch","Ye seek hot water under cold ice."
"Scotch","Ye should be a King of your word."
"Scotch","Ye strive against the stream."
"Scotch","Ye will break your crag as soon as your fast in his house."
"Scotch","Ye will get war bodes ere Beltan."
"Scotch","Ye would doe little for God, and the Devil were dead."
"Scotch","Your winning is no my tinsel."
"Scotch","Youth and age will never agree."
"Scotch","Youth never casts for peril."
"Scotch","Ill weeds waxes weil."
"Scotch","Little sayd is soon mended, and a little geir is soon spended."
"Scotch","Ye may puind for debt, but not for unkindnesse."
"Scotch","Whatrax my Jo, I ken your coptan."
"Scotch","There are many fair words in the marriage making, but few in the tochergood paying."
"Scotch","Use your friend as ye would have him."
"Scotch","Waken not sleeping dogs."
"Scotch","Wark bears witnesse who weil does."
"Scotch","We have a craw to pluck."
"Scotch","We hounds flew the Hare, quoth the messoun."
"Scotch","Wealth gars wit waver."
"Scotch","Weapons bodes peace."
"Scotch","Weil bides, weil betides."
"Scotch","Weil is that weil does."
"Scotch","Weil worth aw, that gars the plough draw."
"Scotch","Wrong count is no payment."
"Scotch","Well good-mother-daughter."
"Scotch","Wrang hes no warrand."
"Scotch","Whatrax of the seed, where the frendship dow not."
"Scotch","Wiles help weak folk."
"Scotch","Wishers and woulders are poor householders."
"Scotch","Wit in a poor mans head, and mosse in a mountain, avails nothing."
"Scotch","With empty hand no man should hawks allure."
"Scotch","Women and bairns keep counsell of that they ken not."
"Scotch","Wonder lasts but nine nights in a Town."
"Scotch","Wont beguil'd the Lady."
"Scotch","Wood in wildernesse, & strength in a fool."
"Scotch","Words are but winde, but dunts are the Devill."
"Scotch","Unskilfull mediciners, and horse-marshels slayes, both man and beast."
"Scotch","Well done, soon done."
"Scotch","Seldom lies the Devil dead by the dike side."
"Scotch","There belongs mair to a bed nor four bare leggs."
"Scotch","Reavers should not be rewers."
"Scotch","Rhue and time, grows both in ane garden."
"Scotch","Rome was not bigged on the first Day."
"Scotch","Rule youth well, and eild will rule it fell."
"Scotch","Ruse the fair day at even."
"Scotch","Ruse the Ford, as ye find it."
"Scotch","Ryme spares no man."
"Scotch","Sairy be your meil-poke, and ay your nieve in the nook on't."
"Scotch","Scots-men reckon ay fra an ill hour."
"Scotch","Racklesse youth makes a goustie Age."
"Scotch","Seil comes not while sorrow be gone."
"Scotch","Quhom God will help, no man can hinder."
"Scotch","Seldom rides, tynes the spurres."
"Scotch","Self do, self ha."
"Scotch","Send him to the sea and he will not get water."
"Scotch","Send, and fetch."
"Scotch","Seying goes good cheap."
"Scotch","Shame is past the shad of your haire."
"Scotch","Shame shall fall them that shame thinks, to do themselves a good turn."
"Scotch","She hath past the discipline of a Tavern."
"Scotch","She is a sairy mouse, that hes but one Hole."
"Scotch","She that takes gifts her self, she sels; and she that gives, does nought else."
"Scotch","She's a foul bird that syles her own nest."
"Scotch","Seek your sauce where you get your Ale."
"Scotch","Quhen the eye sees not, the heart rewes not."
"Scotch","Quhair stands your great horse?"
"Scotch","Quhair the Deer is slain, some bloud will lie."
"Scotch","Quhair the Pig breaks, let the shels lie."
"Scotch","Quhat better is the house that the Daw rises in the morning."
"Scotch","Quhen a man is full of lust, his wemb is full of leasing."
"Scotch","Quhen all men speaks, no man hears."
"Scotch","Quhen friends meets, hearts warms."
"Scotch","Quhen I am dead, make me a caddel."
"Scotch","Quhen Taylours are true, there is little good to shew."
"Scotch","Quhen the belly is full the bones would be at rest."
"Scotch","Reason band the man."
"Scotch","Quhen the cup is fullest, bear it evenest."
"Scotch","Shro the ghuest the house is the war of."
"Scotch","Quhen the good-man is fra hame, the board-cloth is tint."
"Scotch","Quhen the good-wife is fra hame, the keys are tint."
"Scotch","Quhen the iron is hot, it is time to strike."
"Scotch","Quhen the Play is best, it is best to lear."
"Scotch","Quhen the Steed is stoon, steik the stable-door."
"Scotch","Quhen the Tod preaches, beware of the hens."
"Scotch","Quhen the well is full, it will run over."
"Scotch","Quhen thy neighbours house is on fire, take tent to thy own."
"Scotch","Quhen wine is in, wits out."
"Scotch","Quhiles the hawk hes, and whiles he hunger hes."
"Scotch","Quhiles thou, whiles I, soe goes the Baillerie."
"Scotch","Quhen the craw flees, her tail follows."
"Scotch","The mouth that lyes, slayes the foul."
"Scotch","The day hes eyne, the night hes ears."
"Scotch","The goose-pan is above the roast."
"Scotch","The grace of God is geir enough."
"Scotch","The greatest Clerks are not the wisest men."
"Scotch","The higher up, the greater fall."
"Scotch","The lesse play the better."
"Scotch","The longer we live, the more farlies we see."
"Scotch","The mae the merrier, the fewer the better cheer."
"Scotch","The mair cost, the mair honour."
"Scotch","The mair haste, the war speed."
"Scotch","Shew me the man, and I will shew you the Law."
"Scotch","The mother of mischief is na mair nor a midgewing."
"Scotch","That which hussies spares, Cats eat."
"Scotch","The next time ye dance, wit whom ye take by the hand."
"Scotch","The Piper wants meikle, that wants the nether chafts."
"Scotch","The shots overgoes the old swine."
"Scotch","The Sowter's wife is worst shod."
"Scotch","The Tailours wife is worst clad."
"Scotch","The thing that is fristed, is not forgiven."
"Scotch","The tree falls not at the first strake."
"Scotch","The weakest goes to the walls."
"Scotch","The worst world that ever was, some man wan."
"Scotch","There are mae maidens, nor maukin."
"Scotch","There are mae wayes to the wood nor ane."
"Scotch","The Malt is above the Meal."
"Scotch","Speir at Jock-thief my marrow, if I be a leal man."
"Scotch","Quha may wooe, but Cost?"
"Scotch","Sike a man as thou would be, draw thee to sike company."
"Scotch","Sike answer as a man gives, sike will he get."
"Scotch","Sike father, sike son."
"Scotch","Sike lippes, sike Latace."
"Scotch","Sike man, sike master."
"Scotch","Sike Priest, sike Offering."
"Scotch","Small winning makes a heavy purse."
"Scotch","Soft fire makes sweet malt."
"Scotch","Sokeing sale is best."
"Scotch","Soon gotten, soon spended."
"Scotch","The Craw thinks her awn Bird fairest."
"Scotch","Sooth bourd is na bourd."
"Scotch","The blind Horse is hardiest."
"Scotch","Spit on the Stane, and it will be wet at the last."
"Scotch","Sturt payes na Debt."
"Scotch","Surfeit slayes mae nor the sword."
"Scotch","Swear by your brunt shins."
"Scotch","Take a man by his word, and a Cow by her horn."
"Scotch","Take him up there with his five Egges, and four of them rotten."
"Scotch","Take part of the pelf when the pack is a dealing."
"Scotch","Take time while time is, for time will away."
"Scotch","Tarrowing bairns were never fat."
"Scotch","Teem bags rattles."
"Scotch","Shod in the cradle, bair-foot in the Stubble."
"Scotch","Soon ripe, soon rotten."
"Scotch","As soon comes the Lamb-skin to the market as the old Sheeps."
"Scotch","Bourd neither with me, nor with my Honour."
"Scotch","Anes wood, never wise, ay the worse."
"Scotch","As fair fights Wrans as Cranes."
"Scotch","As fair greits the bairn that is dung after noon, as he that is dung before noon."
"Scotch","As good hads the stirep as he that loups on."
"Scotch","As good haud, as draw."
"Scotch","As good merchant tines as wins."
"Scotch","As long as ye bear the tod, ye man bear up his tail."
"Scotch","As long fives the merry-man, as the wretch for all the craft he can."
"Scotch","As long runs the Fox as he hath feet."
"Scotch","Ane's ain hearth is goud's worth."
"Scotch","As meikle upwith, as meikle downwith."
"Scotch","Ane year a Nurish, seven years a Daw."
"Scotch","As the Carle riches he wretches."
"Scotch","As the fool thinks ay the bell clinks."
"Scotch","As the old Cock craws, the young Cock lears."
"Scotch","As the Sow fills the Draff fowres."
"Scotch","At open doors Dogs come in."
"Scotch","Auld men are twice bairns."
"Scotch","Auld sin, new shame."
"Scotch","Bairns mother burst never."
"Scotch","Bannaks is better nor na kind of bread."
"Scotch","Be the same thing that thou wald be cald."
"Scotch","Bear wealth, poverty will bear itself."
"Scotch","As many heads as many wits."
"Scotch","An old seck craves meikle clouting."
"Scotch","An hired Horse tired never."
"Scotch","An Horse may snapper on four feet."
"Scotch","An hungry man sees far."
"Scotch","An ill Cook would have a good Cleaver."
"Scotch","An ill hound comes halting home."
"Scotch","An ill life, an ill end."
"Scotch","An ill servant will never be a good maister."
"Scotch","An ill shearer gat never a good hook."
"Scotch","An ill win penny will cast down a pound."
"Scotch","An ill-willy Cow should have short horns."
"Scotch","Anes pay it never crave it."
"Scotch","An old Knave is na bairn."
"Scotch","Better a chigging mother, nor a riding father."
"Scotch","An old seck is ay skailing."
"Scotch","An oleit Mother makes a fweir Daughter."
"Scotch","An ounce of mother-wit, is worth a pound of clergie."
"Scotch","An unch is a feast."
"Scotch","An unhappy mans Cairt is eith to tumble."
"Scotch","And old hound bytes fair."
"Scotch","Ane Begger is wae, another by the gate gae."
"Scotch","Ane ill word begets another, and it were at at the Bridge at London."
"Scotch","Ane mans meat is another mans poyson."
"Scotch","Ane may lead a Horse to the water, but four and twenty cannot gar him drink."
"Scotch","Ane Swallow makes no summer."
"Scotch","An inch of a nag is worth a span of an aver."
"Scotch","Better two skaiths, nor ane sorrow."
"Scotch","Better late thrive then never."
"Scotch","Better learn by your neighbors skaith nor by your own."
"Scotch","Better leave nor want."
"Scotch","Better never begun nor never endit."
"Scotch","Better no ring, nor the ring of a rash."
"Scotch","Better plays a full wemb nor a new coat."
"Scotch","Better rew sit, nor rew flie."
"Scotch","Better saucht with little aucht, nor care with many cow."
"Scotch","Better say, Here it is, nor, Here it was."
"Scotch","Better sit idle then work for nought."
"Scotch","Beauty but bounty avails nought."
"Scotch","Better spare at the breird nor at the bottome."
"Scotch","Better have a Mouse in the pot as no flesh."
"Scotch","Better unborn nor untaught."
"Scotch","Better wooe over midding, nor over mosse."
"Scotch","Betwixt twae stools the arse falls down."
"Scotch","Beware of Had I wist."
"Scotch","Bind the seck ere it be full."
"Scotch","Binde fast, finde fast."
"Scotch","Biting and scarting is Scots folks Wooing."
"Scotch","Black will be no other Hue."
"Scotch","Blaw the wind nere so saft, it will lowen at the last."
"Scotch","Boden gear stinks."
"Scotch","Bonie silver is soon spendit."
"Scotch","Better sit stil, nor rise and get a fall."
"Scotch","Better be happy nor wise."
"Scotch","All wald have all, all wald forgive."
"Scotch","Better a clout nor a hole out."
"Scotch","Better a Dog faun nor bark on you."
"Scotch","Better a fowl in hand nor twa flying."
"Scotch","Better a laying Hen nor a lyin Crown."
"Scotch","Better a little fire that warms, nor a meikle that burns."
"Scotch","Better a wit cost, nor two for nought."
"Scotch","Better apple given nor eaten."
"Scotch","Better auld debts nor auld sairs."
"Scotch","Better bairns greit, nor bearded men."
"Scotch","Better be alone nor in ill company."
"Scotch","Better lang little, then soon right nought."
"Scotch","Better be envied nor pittied."
"Scotch","Better held out nor put out."
"Scotch","Better be well loved, nor ill won geir."
"Scotch","Better bide the Cooks nor the Mediciners."
"Scotch","Better bow nor break."
"Scotch","Better buy as borrow."
"Scotch","Better finger off, nor ay warking."
"Scotch","Better give nor take."
"Scotch","Better good sale, nor good Ale."
"Scotch","Better half an egge, nor teem doup."
"Scotch","Better hand loose, nor bound to an ill baikine."
"Scotch","Better happy to court, nor good service."
"Scotch","Before I wein, and now I wat."
"Scotch","Better be dead as out of the fashion."
"Scotch","A good yeoman makes a good woman."
"Scotch","A full seck will take a clout on the side."
"Scotch","A gentle Horse would not be over fair spur'd."
"Scotch","A gloved Cat was never a good Hunter."
"Scotch","A good asker should have a good nay-say."
"Scotch","A good beginning makes a good ending."
"Scotch","A good Cow may have an ill Calf."
"Scotch","A good dog never barkt but a bene."
"Scotch","A good fellow tint never, but at an ill fellows hand."
"Scotch","A good Goose indeed, but she hes an ill gansell."
"Scotch","A good piece steil is worth a penny."
"Scotch","A man may speir the gate to Rome."
"Scotch","A good word is as soon said as an ill."
"Scotch","A friend is not known but in need."
"Scotch","A greedy man God hates."
"Scotch","A half-penny Cat may look to the King."
"Scotch","A hasty man never wanted woe."
"Scotch","A hearty hand to give a hungry meltith."
"Scotch","A hungry lowse bites fair."
"Scotch","A Lyar should have a good memory."
"Scotch","A Mach and a Horshoe are both alike."
"Scotch","A man cannot thrive except his wife let him."
"Scotch","A man hath no more good then he hath good of."
"Scotch","A man is a Lyon in his own cause."
"Scotch","An answer in a word."
"Scotch","A good ruser was never a good rider."
"Scotch","A cumbersome Cur in company is hated for his miscarriage."
"Scotch","Little wars an ill hussie what a dinner holds in."
"Scotch","Ill herds makes fat wolfes."
"Scotch","A bairn must creep ere he gang."
"Scotch","A begun work is half ended."
"Scotch","A bettlesie brain cannot lye."
"Scotch","A black shoe makes a blythe heart."
"Scotch","A bleat Cat makes a proud Mouse."
"Scotch","A blind man should not judge of colours."
"Scotch","A blyth heart makes a blomand visage."
"Scotch","A borrowed len should come laughing ahme."
"Scotch","A broken a Ship hes come to land."
"Scotch","A full heart lied never."
"Scotch","A Cock is crouse upon his own midding."
"Scotch","A friends Dinner is soon dight."
"Scotch","A dum man holds all."
"Scotch","A dum man wan never land."
"Scotch","A Fair Bride is soon buskt, and a short Horse is soon wispt."
"Scotch","A fair fire makes a room flet."
"Scotch","A fool may give a wise man a counsell."
"Scotch","A fool when he hes spoken, hes all done."
"Scotch","A fool will not give his Bauble for the Tower of London."
"Scotch","A fools bolt is soon shot."
"Scotch","A foul foot makes a son wemb."
"Scotch","A friend in Court is worth a penny in purse."
"Scotch","A man may spit on his hand, and doe full ill."
"Scotch","A burnt bairn fire dreads."
"Scotch","All overs are ill but over the water."
"Scotch","A yule feast may be quit at Pasch."
"Scotch","Absence is a shro."
"Scotch","Airly crooks the Tree that good Lammock should be."
"Scotch","All are not maidens that wears bare hair."
"Scotch","All cracks, all beares."
"Scotch","All fails that fools thinks."
"Scotch","All fellows, Jock and the Laird."
"Scotch","All Houndlesse man comes to the best Hunting."
"Scotch","All is not gold that glitters."
"Scotch","All is not in hand that helps."
"Scotch","A man may see his friend need, but will not see him bleed."
"Scotch","All is well that ends well."
"Scotch","A Wool-seller kens a Wool-buyer."
"Scotch","All the Corn in the Country is not shorn by the Kempers."
"Scotch","All the Keys of the Countrey hangs not at one Belt."
"Scotch","All the speed is in the spurs."
"Scotch","All the winning is in the first buying."
"Scotch","All things are good unseyed."
"Scotch","All things hath a beginning, God excepted."
"Scotch","All things helps quoth the Wran, when she pisht in the Sea."
"Scotch","All things hes an end, a Pudding hes twa."
"Scotch","All things thrive but thrice."
"Scotch","All things wytes that well not fares."
"Scotch","A given Horse should not be lookt in the teeth."
"Scotch","All is not tint that is in peril."
"Scotch","A skabbed sheep syles ail the flock."
"Scotch","A man may wooe where he will, but wed where is his weard."
"Scotch","A man that is warned, is half-armed."
"Scotch","A mean pot plaid never even."
"Scotch","A mirk mirrour is a mans mind."
"Scotch","A new Bissom sweeps clean."
"Scotch","A new tout in all old horn."
"Scotch","A poor man is fain of little."
"Scotch","A proud heart in a poor breast, has meikle dolour to dree."
"Scotch","A racklesse hussy makes mony thieves."
"Scotch","A Scots man is ay wife behind band."
"Scotch","A shored Tree stands long."
"Scotch","A yeeld Sow was never good to gryses."
"Scotch","A Skabbed Horse is good enough for a skald Squire."
"Scotch","A word before is worth two behinde."
"Scotch","A skade mans head is soon broke."
"Scotch","A sloathfull man is a Beggers brother."
"Scotch","A spoon full of skytter spills a pot full of skins."
"Scotch","A still Sow eats all the Draff."
"Scotch","A tarrowing bairn was never fat."
"Scotch","A teem purse makes a bleat merchant."
"Scotch","A tratler is worse then a thief."
"Scotch","A travelled man hath leave to lye."
"Scotch","A Vaunter and a Lyar is both one thing."
"Scotch","A wight man never wanted a weapon."
"Scotch","Among twenty four fools not ane wise man."
"Scotch","A silly bairn is eith to lear."
"Scotch","He that does ill hates the light."
"Scotch","He that is hated of his subjects, cannot be counted a King."
"Scotch","He sits above that deals aikers."
"Scotch","He sits full still that hes a riven brick."
"Scotch","He that blaws best bears away the Horn."
"Scotch","He that borrows and bigs; makes feasts and thigs; drinks and is not"
"Scotch","He that comes first to the hill, may sit where he will."
"Scotch","He that comes un-call'd sits un-serv'd."
"Scotch","He that counts all costs, will never put plow in the yeard."
"Scotch","He that counts but his Host, counts twise."
"Scotch","He that crabs without cause, should mease without mends."
"Scotch","He should have a long shafted spoon that sups kail with the Devil."
"Scotch","He that does his turn in time, sits half idle."
"Scotch","He should have a heal pow, that cals his neighbour nikkynow."
"Scotch","He that eats while he lasts, will be the war while he die."
"Scotch","He that evill does, never good weins."
"Scotch","He that fishes afore the net, long e're he fish get."
"Scotch","He that forsakes missour, missour forsake him."
"Scotch","He that hes gold may buy land."
"Scotch","He that hes no geir to tine, hes shins to pine."
"Scotch","He that hes twa huirds, is able to get the third."
"Scotch","He that hews over hie, the spail will fall into his eye."
"Scotch","He that is evil deem'd is half hang'd."
"Scotch","He that is far from his geir, is near his skaith."
"Scotch","He calls me scabbed, because I will not call him skade."
"Scotch","He that does bidding, deserves na dinging."
"Scotch","He is twise fain, that sits on a slane."
"Scotch","He gangs early to steal, that cannot say Na."
"Scotch","He hes wit at will, that with angry heart can hold him still."
"Scotch","He is a fairy beggar that may not goe by ane mans door."
"Scotch","He is a fairy Cook, that may not lick his own fingers."
"Scotch","He is a proud Tod that will not scrape his own Hole."
"Scotch","He is a weak Horse that may not bear the Saddle."
"Scotch","He is blind that eats his marrow, but far blinder that lets him."
"Scotch","He is fairest dung when his own wand dings him."
"Scotch","He is good that fail'd never."
"Scotch","He is not the best Wright that hews the maniest speals."
"Scotch","He should wear iron shone, that bides his neighbours deed."
"Scotch","He is poor that God Hates."
"Scotch","He that is ill of his harbery, is good of his way kenning."
"Scotch","He is well easit that hes ought of his own, when others go to meat."
"Scotch","He is well staikit thereben, that will neither borrow, nor len."
"Scotch","He is wise who can make a friend of a foe."
"Scotch","He is wise, that is ware in time."
"Scotch","He is wise, when he is well can had him sa."
"Scotch","He is worth no weil that may bide no wae."
"Scotch","He loves me for little that hates me for nought."
"Scotch","He mon have leave to speak that cannot had his tongue."
"Scotch","He plaints early that plaints on his kail."
"Scotch","He rides sicker that fell never."
"Scotch","He rises over early that is hangit ere noon."
"Scotch","He is not the fool that the fool is, but he that with the fool deals."
"Scotch","If God be with us, who will be against us."
"Scotch","He that is fraid of a far--should never hear thunder."
"Scotch","Hunger is hard in a heal man."
"Scotch","Hunting, hawking, and paramours, for one joy an hundred displeasures."
"Scotch","I cannot find you both tails and ears."
"Scotch","I have a good bow, but it is in the Castle."
"Scotch","I have a sliddery Eel by the tail."
"Scotch","I have seen as light a green."
"Scotch","I shall sit on his skirt."
"Scotch","I would I had as meikle pepper as he counts himself worthy Mice dirt."
"Scotch","If a man knew what would be dear, he would be but Merchant for a year."
"Scotch","Huly and fair men rides far journeys."
"Scotch","If ever ye make a lucky pudding, I shall eat the prick."
"Scotch","Hoordom and grace, can never bide in one place."
"Scotch","If he may spend meikle, put the more to the fire."
"Scotch","If he steal not my kail, break not my dike."
"Scotch","If I can get his cart at a Waltar, I shall lend it a put."
"Scotch","If I may not keep geese, I shall keep gesline."
"Scotch","If thou do no ill, do no ill like."
"Scotch","If ye wanted me, and your meat, you would want ane good friend."
"Scotch","Bourd not with Bawty, fear lest he bite ye."
"Scotch","A gangan foot is ay getting, and it were but a thorn."
"Scotch","Ilk a man as he loves, let him send to the Cooks."
"Scotch","Ilk man mend ane, and all will be mendit."
"Scotch","Ill bairns are best heard at home."
"Scotch","If ane will not, another will."
"Scotch","He that spends his geir on a whore, hes both shame and skaith."
"Scotch","He that is red for windlestraws, should not sleep in lees."
"Scotch","He that is welcome fares well."
"Scotch","He that lippens to bon plows, his land will ly ley."
"Scotch","He that looks not e're he loup, will fall e're he wit of himself."
"Scotch","He that marries a Daw, eats meikle dirt."
"Scotch","He that marries e're he be wise, will die e're he thrive."
"Scotch","He that may not do as he would, mon do as he may."
"Scotch","He that owes the Cow goes nearest her tail."
"Scotch","He that shames, shall be shemt."
"Scotch","He that slayes, shall be slain."
"Scotch","Hunger is good Kitchir-meat."
"Scotch","He that speaks the things he should not, hears the things he would not."
"Scotch","I shall hold his Nose to the Grindstone."
"Scotch","He that takes all his geir fra himself, and gives it to his bairns, it were weil ward to take a mell and knock out his hairns."
"Scotch","He that tholes, overcomes."
"Scotch","He that was born to be hang'd will never be drown'd."
"Scotch","He that will not hear motherhead, shall hear stepmotherhead."
"Scotch","He that will not when he may, shalt not when he wald."
"Scotch","He tint never a Cow, that grat for a needle."
"Scotch","He was scant of news, that told his father was hang'd."
"Scotch","Hea, will gar a deaf man hear."
"Scotch","Hear all parties."
"Scotch","Help thy self, and God will help thee."
"Scotch","Honesty is na pride."
"Scotch","He that spares to speak, spares to speed."
"Scotch","Eat and drink measurely, and defie the mediciners."
"Scotch","Do in Hill, as ye wald do in Hall."
"Scotch","Do the likeliest, and God will do the best."
"Scotch","Do weil and have weil."
"Scotch","Do well, and doubt no man; and do weil, and doubt all men."
"Scotch","Dogs will red swine."
"Scotch","Draff is good enough for Swine."
"Scotch","Drink and drouth comes sindle together."
"Scotch","Drive out the inch as thou hast done the span."
"Scotch","Drunken wife gat ay the drunken penny."
"Scotch","dry; these three are not thrifty."
"Scotch","Every man wisheth the water to his own milne."
"Scotch","Early maister, lang knave."
"Scotch","Dead men bites not."
"Scotch","Eaten meat is good to pay."
"Scotch","Efter delay comes a Let."
"Scotch","Efter long mint, never dint."
"Scotch","Efter word comes weard."
"Scotch","Eild wald have Honour."
"Scotch","Evening Orts is good morning-fother."
"Scotch","Every land hes his lauch, and every corne hes the caff."
"Scotch","Every man can rule an ill wife, but he that hes Her."
"Scotch","Every man for Himself, quoth the mertine."
"Scotch","Every man slams the fat sows Arse."
"Scotch","Every man wats best where his own shoe binds him."
"Scotch","Dummie cannot lie."
"Scotch","Come it aire, come it late, in May comes the Cow-quake."
"Scotch","Cadgers speaks of lead saddles."
"Scotch","Calk is na sheares."
"Scotch","I wat where my own shoe binds me."
"Scotch","He braks my head, an' syne puts on my hoo."
"Scotch","Buy when I bid you."
"Scotch","Bring a Cow to the Hall, and she will run to the byre again."
"Scotch","Breads House skiald never."
"Scotch","Cast not forth the old water while the new come in."
"Scotch","Cats eats that Hussies spares."
"Scotch","Cease your snow balls casting."
"Scotch","Changing of works is lighting of hearts."
"Scotch","Do as ye wald be done to."
"Scotch","Clap a carle on the culs, and he will shit in your louf."
"Scotch","Dirt parts company."
"Scotch","Comparisons are odious."
"Scotch","Condition makes, and condition breakes."
"Scotch","Court to the Town, and whore to the window."
"Scotch","Crabbit was, and cause had."
"Scotch","Curtesie is cumbersom to them that kens it not."
"Scotch","Cut duels in every Town."
"Scotch","Daffing dow nothing."
"Scotch","Dame dein warily."
"Scotch","Dead and marriage makes Term-day."
"Scotch","Dead at the one door, and heirship at the other."
"Scotch","Come not to the councell uncalled."
"Scotch","Charge your friend ere you need."
"Scotch","Hald in geir, helps well."
"Scotch","Give never the Wolf the Wedder to keep."
"Scotch","Go to the Devil for Gods-sake."
"Scotch","God sends meat, and the Devil sends Cooks."
"Scotch","God sends men cold, as they have clothes to."
"Scotch","God sends never the mouth, but the meat with it."
"Scotch","Gods help is nearer nor the fair even."
"Scotch","Goe shoe the Geese."
"Scotch","Good chear, and good cheap, garres many haunt the House."
"Scotch","Good wine needs not a wisp."
"Scotch","Good-will should be tane in part of payment."
"Scotch","Grace is best for the man."
"Scotch","Girne when you knit, and laugh when ye loose."
"Scotch","Hair, and hair, makes the Carles head bare."
"Scotch","Hame is hamely, though never so seemly."
"Scotch","Half a nuch is half sill."
"Scotch","Half a tale is enough to a wise man."
"Scotch","Hall-binks are fliddery."
"Scotch","Experience may teach a fool."
"Scotch","Hanging gangs by hap."
"Scotch","Cold cools the love that kindles over hot."
"Scotch","Hap and an halfpennie is worlds geir enough."
"Scotch","Happy man, happy cavil."
"Scotch","Hast makes wast."
"Scotch","Have God and have All."
"Scotch","He behoves to have meal enou, that sal stop ilka man's mou'."
"Scotch","Had-I-fish, was never good with Garlick."
"Scotch","Fool hast is no speed."
"Scotch","Fidlers, dogs and flies, come to the feast uncalled."
"Scotch","Few words sufficeth to a wise man."
"Scotch","Giff, gaff, makes good friends."
"Scotch","Fair words brake never bane, foul words many ane."
"Scotch","Fair heights makes fools fain."
"Scotch","Far fowls have fair feathers."
"Scotch","Fire is good for the farcy."
"Scotch","Fill fow, and had fow, makes a starke man."
"Scotch","Follow love, and it will flee from thee; leave it, and it will follow thee."
"Scotch","Fools are fain of flitting."
"Scotch","Fools are fain of right nought."
"Scotch","Fools make feasts, and wise men eat them."
"Scotch","Fools set far trystes."
"Scotch","For a tint thing care not."
"Scotch","Follie is a bonny Dog."
"Scotch","Far fought, and dear bought, is good for Ladies."
"Scotch","Foul water slokens fire."
"Scotch","Forbid a fool a thing, and that he will do."
"Scotch","For fault of wise men fools sits on binks."
"Scotch","Freedome is a fair thing."
"Scotch","Fools should have no chappin sticks."
"Scotch","Falshood made never a fair Hinder-end."
"Scotch","Friendship stands not in One side."
"Scotch","For love of the Nuris, many kisses the Bairn."
"Scottish","Either a man or a mouse."
"Scottish","Learn young, learn fair; learn old, learn more."
"Scottish","Never let your feet run faster than your shoes."
"Scottish","Never draw your dirk when a blow will do it."
"Scottish","Luck never gives; it only lends."
"Scottish","Get what you can and keep what you have; that's the way to get rich."
"Scottish","They that live longest, see most."
"Scottish","Egotism is an alphabet of one letter."
"Scottish","Take care of your pennies and your dollars will take care of themselves."
"Scottish","The devil's boots don't creak."
"Scottish","There never came ill of good advisement."
"Scottish","They are good that are away."
"Scottish","They talk of my drinking but never my thirst."
"Scottish","Twelve highlanders and a bagpipe make a rebellion."
"Scottish","Never marry for money. You can borrow it cheaper."
"Scottish","Willful waste makes woeful want."
"Scottish","They that smell least, smell best."
"Scottish","They that sow the wind, shall reap the whirlwind."
"Scottish","Open confession is good for the soul."
"Scottish","They that will not be counselled cannot be helped."
"Scottish","What may be done at any time will be done at no time."
"Scottish","When the cup is full, carry it even."
"Scottish","They that dance must pay the fiddler."
"Scottish","Don't marry for money, you can borrow it cheaper."
"Scottish","Get what you can and keep what you have; that's the way to get rich."
"Scottish","Never draw your dirk when a blow will do it."
"Scottish","Better be ill spoken of by one before all than by all before one."
"Scottish","Be slow in choosing a friend, but slower in changing him."
"Scottish","Be happy while you're living, For you're a long time dead."
"Scottish","Confessed faults are half mended."
"Scottish","The day has eyes, the night has ears."
"Scottish","What may be done at any time will be done at no time."
"Scottish","A man is a lion in his own cause."
"Scottish","A tale never loses in the telling."
"Scottish","Be happy while you're living, For you're a long time dead."
"Scottish","Be slow in choosing a friend, but slower in changing him."
"Scottish","Better be ill spoken of by one before all than by all before one."
"Scottish","Confessed faults are half mended."
"Scottish","Confession is good for the soul."
"Scottish","Never shaw your teeth unless you can bite."
"Scottish","Never put a sword into a madman's hand."
"Scottish","Never take a wife till you know what to do with her."
"Scottish","Never tell your fae when your foot sleeps."
"Scottish","Never seek a wife till ye ken what to do with her."
"Scottish","Never scad your lips in other fouks kail."
"Scottish","Need maks a man o craft."
"Scottish","Never quit certainty for hope."
"Scottish","Never marry for money. You can borrow it cheaper."
"Scottish","Never marry for money. Ye'll borrow it cheaper."
"Scottish","Never let your feet run faster than your shoes."
"Scottish","Never keep a cou when ye can get milk cheap."
"Scottish","Never go to the devil and a dish-clout in your hand."
"Scottish","Of a' sorrow a fou sorrow's best."
"Scottish","Never draw your dirk when a blow will do it."
"Scottish","Neither fish nor flesh nor good red herring."
"Scottish","Never do ill that good may come."
"Scottish","Never dae ill that guid micht come o't."
"Scottish","Need maks the naked quean spin."
"Scottish","Of twa ills chuse the least."
"Scottish","Out o' debt, out o' danger."
"Scottish","Out o' davy lindsay into wallace."
"Scottish","Oppression will make a wise man mad."
"Scottish","Open confession is good for the soul."
"Scottish","Oor ain reek's better than ither fowk's fire."
"Scottish","One whisky is all right; two is too much; three is too few."
"Scottish","One should watch out for a very trifling or lame reason given for something that has been done."
"Scottish","One may survive distress, but not disgrace."
"Scottish","One may ride a free horse to death."
"Scottish","One for sorrow, two for joy, Three for a girl, four for a boy. Five for silver, six for gold, And seven for a secret that must never be told."
"Scottish","O'er mickle of a thing is good for naething."
"Scottish","Oil and truth will get uppermost at last."
"Scottish","New lairds have new laws."
"Scottish","Of ane ill come mony."
"Scottish","Nane can play the fool sae well as a wise man."
"Scottish","O'er sicker o'er loose."
"Scottish","Neck or naething, the king loes nae cripples."
"Scottish","Now-a-days truth's news."
"Scottish","Now's now, and yule's in winter."
"Scottish","No man makes his own hap."
"Scottish","No heaven will not ever Heaven be; unless my cats are there to welcome me."
"Scottish","Nipping and scarting's scotch folk's wooing."
"Scottish","Nineteen nay-says of a maiden are half a grant."
"Scottish","On painting and fighting look adreich."
"Scottish","Mony littles maks a muckle."
"Scottish","Narrow gathered, widely spent."
"Scottish","My son's my son aye till he get a wife, my daughter's my daughter a' the days of her life."
"Scottish","My neighbours skaith's my ain peril."
"Scottish","My market's made ye may lick a whip shaft."
"Scottish","Must is a kings word."
"Scottish","Muckle spoken, part spilt."
"Scottish","Muckle corn, muckle care."
"Scottish","Muck and money gae thegither."
"Scottish","Mony wyte their wife for their ain thriftless like."
"Scottish","Nae fleeing frae fate."
"Scottish","Mony ways to kill a dog though ye dinna hang him."
"Scottish","Nae fool to an auld fool."
"Scottish","Mony hounds may soon worry a hare."
"Scottish","Out o' the peat pot into the gutter."
"Scottish","Sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander."
"Scottish","Mony ane wad hae been waur had their estates been better."
"Scottish","Mony hands make light wark."
"Scottish","Mony aunts, mony emes, mony kin, but few friends."
"Scottish","Mony good nights is laith away."
"Scottish","Mony cooks ne'er made good kail."
"Scottish","Mony dogs die or ye fa' heir."
"Scottish","Mony words, muckle drouth."
"Scottish","Naething to do but draw in your stool & sit down."
"Scottish","Neathing comes fairer to licht than what heas been lang hidden."
"Scottish","Nearer e'en the mair beggars."
"Scottish","Ne'er strive against the stream."
"Scottish","Ne'er say Ill fallow to him you deal wi'."
"Scottish","Ne'er misca' a gordon in the raws o' strathbogie."
"Scottish","Ne'er lippen ower muckle to a new friend or an auld enemy."
"Scottish","Nae man can thrive unless his wife let him."
"Scottish","Nane sae weel but he hopes to be better."
"Scottish","Nane can play the fool sae weel as a wise man."
"Scottish","Nae butter will stick to my bread."
"Scottish","Nane but fools and knaves lay wagers."
"Scottish","Necessity has nae law."
"Scottish","Naething like bein stark deid."
"Scottish","Nae wonder to see wasters want."
"Scottish","Nae sooner up than her head's in the ambry."
"Scottish","Nae safe wading in unco waters."
"Scottish","Nae penny nae paternoster."
"Scottish","Nae man has a tack of his life."
"Scottish","Nae man can baith sup and blaw at ance."
"Scottish","Nae great loss but there's some sma' profit."
"Scottish","Nae friend to a friend in need."
"Scottish","Nane can mak a bore but ye'll find a pin for't"
"Scottish","Seeing's believing a' the world o'er."
"Scottish","Ruse the ford as ye find it."
"Scottish","Shame shall fall them that shame thinks, to do themselves a good turn."
"Scottish","Shallow waters make maist din."
"Scottish","Seying goes good cheap."
"Scottish","Set that down on the back side of your count-book."
"Scottish","Set a stout heart to a stay brae."
"Scottish","Set a knave to catch a knave."
"Scottish","Serve yoursel' till your bairns come to age."
"Scottish","Send, and fetch."
"Scottish","She frisks about like a cat's tail i' the sun"
"Scottish","Sel, sel, has half-filled hell."
"Scottish","She hauds up her head like a hen drinking water."
"Scottish","Seein's believin' a' the world ower."
"Scottish","Scotsmen aye tak their mark frae a mischief."
"Scottish","Scornfu' dogs eat dirty puddin's."
"Scottish","Scorn makes commonly with skaith."
"Scottish","Scart the cog wad sup mare."
"Scottish","Scant of cheeks makes a long nose."
"Scottish","Say well's good but do well is better."
"Scottish","Say still no and ye'll never be married."
"Scottish","Save yourself frae the deil and the laird's bairns."
"Scottish","Self-praise is nae honour."
"Scottish","Sic things maun be if we sell ale."
"Scottish","Smooth waters run deep."
"Scottish","Sma' fish are better than nae fish."
"Scottish","Slippery is the flagstone at the mansion-house door."
"Scottish","Slighted love is sair to bide."
"Scottish","Keep something for a sair foot."
"Scottish","Mony ane kisses the bairn for love o the nurse."
"Scottish","Slaw at meat slaw at wark."
"Scottish","Sins and debts are aye mair than we think them."
"Scottish","Silly bairns are eith to lear."
"Scottish","Sharp stomachs make short graces."
"Scottish","Sike a man as thou would be, draw thee to sike company."
"Scottish","Rule youth weel, for eild will rule itsel'."
"Scottish","Sic reek as is therein comes out of the lum top."
"Scottish","Sic as ye gie sic will ye get."
"Scottish","Shro the ghuest the house is the war of."
"Scottish","Short rents mak careless tenants."
"Scottish","She's better than she's bonny."
"Scottish","She'll keep her ain side o the hoose, an gang up an doun yours."
"Scottish","She spend's money like a woman with nay hands."
"Scottish","She looks as if butter would not melt in her mouth."
"Scottish","She hauds up her heid like a hen drinkin watter."
"Scottish","Silence grips the mouse."
"Scottish","Plack aboot's fair play."
"Scottish","Pride and grace ne'er dwell in ae place."
"Scottish","Pride and grace dwell never in ae place."
"Scottish","Prayer and practice is good rhyme."
"Scottish","Praise the fine day in the evening."
"Scottish","Possession's worth an ill charter."
"Scottish","Possession is eleven points of the law."
"Scottish","Poor men are fain of little thing."
"Scottish","Poor fouk's friends soon misken."
"Scottish","Plenty maks dainty."
"Scottish","Sairs shouldna be sair handled."
"Scottish","Play's good while it is play."
"Scottish","Puddins and paramours should be hetly handled."
"Scottish","Pith's good in a play."
"Scottish","Pigs may whistle, but they hae an ill mouth for't."
"Scottish","Pierce the naggers tongue with a thistle and you will hear no more complaints."
"Scottish","Pey-aforehand's never weel ser'd"
"Scottish","Perfect love cannot be without equality."
"Scottish","Penny wise and pound foolish."
"Scottish","Peace is the well from which the stream of joy runs."
"Scottish","Pay him in his ain coin."
"Scottish","Ower mony grieves hinder the wark."
"Scottish","Plenty makes dainty."
"Scottish","Quick for you'll never be cleanly."
"Scottish","Out of debt out of danger."
"Scottish","Rue and time grew baith at ae garden."
"Scottish","Rob Peter to Pay Paul."
"Scottish","Ripe fruit is suinest rotten."
"Scottish","Right wrangs nae man."
"Scottish","Repentance won't cure mischief."
"Scottish","Reckon up your winning at your bed-stock."
"Scottish","Raise no more spirits than you can conjure down."
"Scottish","Racklesse youth makes a goustie age."
"Scottish","Pride that dines wi vanity sups wi contempt."
"Scottish","Quick returns mak rich merchants."
"Scottish","Pride's an ill horse to ride."
"Scottish","Quick at meat quick at wark."
"Scottish","Quhen thy neighbours house is on fire, take tent to thy own."
"Scottish","Quhen the good-man is fra hame, the board-cloth is tint."
"Scottish","Quhair the Deer is slain, some bloud will lie."
"Scottish","Quality without quantity is little thought of."
"Scottish","Put your hand nae farther oot than your sleeve will reach."
"Scottish","Put the saddle on the right horse."
"Scottish","Put the man to the mear that can manage the mear."
"Scottish","Put on your spurs and be at your speed."
"Scottish","Rule youth well, for eild will ruld itself."
"Scottish","Quick returns make rich merchants."
"Scottish","It's a far cry to loch awe."
"Scottish","It's gude to be out o' harm's gate."
"Scottish","It's easier to forgie than to forget."
"Scottish","It's by the mouth of the cow that the milk comes."
"Scottish","It's but kindly that the pock savour of the herring."
"Scottish","It's as true as Biglam's cat crew, and the cock rock'd the cradle."
"Scottish","It's an ill cause that a lawyer thinks shame of."
"Scottish","It's a' outs an' ins, like Willie Wood's wife's wame."
"Scottish","It's a sooth dream that's seen waking."
"Scottish","Keep the staff in your ain hand."
"Scottish","It's a ill kitchen that keeps the breid awa."
"Scottish","It's no for nought that the gled whistles."
"Scottish","It's a cauld stamach that naething hets on."
"Scottish","It will be a feather out of your wing."
"Scottish","It sets you weel to gab wi' your bannet on."
"Scottish","It keeps his nose at the grindstane."
"Scottish","It is well war'd that wasters want."
"Scottish","It is well that our fauts are not written."
"Scottish","It is weil warit that wasters warn geir."
"Scottish","It is the best spake in your wheel."
"Scottish","It is past joking when the head's aff."
"Scottish","It's a sad house where the hen crows louder than the cock."
"Scottish","Kame"
"Scottish","Kings and bears aft worry their keepers."
"Scottish","Kindness comes o will, it canna be coft."
"Scottish","Kend fouk's nae company."
"Scottish","Ken when to spend and when to spare, and ye needna be busy, and ye'll ne'er be bare."
"Scottish","Keep your tongue within your teeth."
"Scottish","Keep your tongue a prisoner, and your body will gang free."
"Scottish","Keep your breath to cool your crowdie."
"Scottish","Keep the feast to the feast day."
"Scottish","Keep out o' his company that cracks o' his cheatery."
"Scottish","It's ill takkin corn frae geese."
"Scottish","Kamesters are ay creeshie."
"Scottish","It's ill to take the breeks off a hielandman."
"Scottish","Jouk and let the jaw gae by."
"Scottish","Joke at leisure, ye kenna wha may jybe you."
"Scottish","Its gude to dread the warst, the best will be the welcomer."
"Scottish","It's weel won that's aff the wame."
"Scottish","It's weel that oor fauts is no written in oor face."
"Scottish","It's stinking praise comes oot o' ane's own mouth."
"Scottish","It's sin and not poverty that makes men miserable."
"Scottish","It's ower weel hoardit that canna be fund."
"Scottish","It is needless to pour water on a drown'd mouse."
"Scottish","Kamesters are aye creeshy."
"Scottish","Ill payers are aye good cravers."
"Scottish","It is not what is she, but what has she."
"Scottish","It is a sair field where a's slain."
"Scottish","It is a nasty bird that files its ain nest."
"Scottish","It is a mean mouse that has but ae hole."
"Scottish","It is a good tongue that says nae ill."
"Scottish","It ill becomes a carpenter to be heavy-handed, a smith to be shake-handed, or a physician to be tenderhearted."
"Scottish","It gangs in at ae lug and out at the ither."
"Scottish","It dangerous to speak against those who are in authority."
"Scottish","In a good time I speak it, in a better I leave it."
"Scottish","It is a silly hen that canna scrape for ae bird."
"Scottish","Ill won gear winna enrich the third heir."
"Scottish","It is a sin to lye on the Devil."
"Scottish","Ill news are aft owre true."
"Scottish","Ilka bird maun hatch her ain egg."
"Scottish","If you're Heelant you're next door to the Fifer."
"Scottish","If you would be a merchant fine, beware o' auld horses, herring, and wine."
"Scottish","If you laugh at your ain sport, the company will laugh at you."
"Scottish","Snailie, snailie, shoot out yer horn, and tell us if it'll be a bonny day the morn."
"Scottish","Wealth, like want, ruins mony."
"Scottish","If ye had as little money as ye have manners, ye would be the poorest man of all your kin."
"Scottish","If you don't see the bottom, don't wade."
"Scottish","Ill-will never spake well."
"Scottish","It is good to be out of harms gate."
"Scottish","Lang ere ye saddle a foal."
"Scottish","It is kittle to waken sleeping dogs."
"Scottish","It is kittle shooting at corbies and clergy."
"Scottish","It is ill to draw a strea before an old cat."
"Scottish","It is ill getting breeks aff a Highlandman."
"Scottish","It is ill fishing if the hook is bare."
"Scottish","It is ill bringing butt what's no benn."
"Scottish","It is hard to sit in Rome and strive with the Pope."
"Scottish","It is hard to please a' parties."
"Scottish","It is a silly flocks where the ewe bears the bell."
"Scottish","It is good to be sib to siller."
"Scottish","It is not tin that a friend gets."
"Scottish","It is good sleeping in a hale skin."
"Scottish","It is good gear that pleases the merchant."
"Scottish","It is good baking beside the meal."
"Scottish","It is easy to sit at the helm in fair weather. - Danish."
"Scottish","It is dear bought honey that is lickt off a thorn."
"Scottish","It is better to sup with a cutty than want a spoon."
"Scottish","It is an ill wind that blaws naebody good."
"Scottish","It is an ill cause that the lawyers think shame."
"Scottish","It is a' tint that is done to auld folk and bairns."
"Scottish","It is hard baith to have and want."
"Scottish","Luck never gives; it only lends."
"Scottish","Little kend the less car'd for."
"Scottish","Malice is aye mindfu'."
"Scottish","Make your hay when the sun shines."
"Scottish","Make the best of an ill bargain."
"Scottish","Make not twa mewes of ane daughter."
"Scottish","Make ae lang step and down ye gae."
"Scottish","Make a kirk or a mill o't."
"Scottish","Mair hast the waur speed."
"Scottish","Mair hamely than welcome."
"Scottish","Many court the child for the sake of the nurse."
"Scottish","Maiden's bairns are aye well bred."
"Scottish","Many haws, many snows."
"Scottish","Love's as warm among cotters as courtiers."
"Scottish","Love your friend and look to yoursel."
"Scottish","Love has nae law."
"Scottish","Loud at the loan was ne'er a good milk cow."
"Scottish","Lo'e me little an' lo'e me lang."
"Scottish","Live in measure, and laugh at the mediciners."
"Scottish","Little to fear when traitors are true."
"Scottish","Little odds between a feast and a fu' wame."
"Scottish","Kissing is cried down since the shaking o' hands."
"Scottish","Mair by luck than good guiding."
"Scottish","Mettle is dangerous in a blind horse."
"Scottish","Mony a ane's gear has hastened his hinder end."
"Scottish","Mony a ane spears the gate they ken."
"Scottish","Mony a ane serves a thankless master."
"Scottish","Money makes a man free every where."
"Scottish","Money is flat and was meant to be piled up."
"Scottish","Money is flat and meant to be piled up."
"Scottish","Money is better than my lord's letter."
"Scottish","Monday is the key day of the week."
"Scottish","Modesty is the beauty of women."
"Scottish","Many a good tale is spoiled in the telling."
"Scottish","Mickle wad aye hae mare."
"Scottish","Lippen to me but look to yoursel."
"Scottish","Meat is gude, but mense is better."
"Scottish","Meat and mass hinders no man."
"Scottish","Maybe you should do something to injure or annoy the bad one."
"Scottish","May-bees flee not at this time of the year."
"Scottish","May God bless you to live as long as you want to; and want to as long as you live."
"Scottish","Marry yer son when ye will, but yer dochter when ye can."
"Scottish","Married folk are like rats in a trap -- fain to get others in, but fain to be out themselves."
"Scottish","Many words fills not the furlot."
"Scottish","Many irons in the fire, pare must cool."
"Scottish","Mills an wifes is aye wantin."
"Scottish","Law's costly -- take a pint and agree."
"Scottish","Little kent, the less cared for."
"Scottish","Leave welcome behind you."
"Scottish","Leave the court ere the court leave you."
"Scottish","Leave aff as lang as the play's good."
"Scottish","Learn your gudewife to mak milk kail."
"Scottish","Learn young, learn fair; learn old, learn more."
"Scottish","Learn you to an ill use arid ye'll ca't custom."
"Scottish","Lear young, lear fair."
"Scottish","Laws catch flies, but let hornets go free."
"Scottish","Let aye the bell'd wether break the snaw."
"Scottish","Law's costly take a pint and 'gree."
"Scottish","Let him cool in the skin he het in."
"Scottish","Law makers shou'dna be law breakers."
"Scottish","Laugh at leisure ye may greet ere night."
"Scottish","Langest at the fire soonest finds cauld"
"Scottish","Lang straes are nae mots."
"Scottish","Lang straes are nae motes, quo' the wife when she haul'd the eat out o' the kirn."
"Scottish","Lang look'd for comes at last."
"Scottish","Lang leal, lang poor."
"Scottish","Lang fasting hains nae meat."
"Scottish","Mony a gude tale is spoilt in the telling."
"Scottish","Law-makers shouldna be law-breakers."
"Scottish","Let the morn come and the meat wi't."
"Scottish","Liked gear is half-bought."
"Scottish","Like's an ill mark."
"Scottish","Like the wife wi' the mony dochters, the best's aye hindmost."
"Scottish","Like draws aye to like.Abr"
"Scottish","Light suppers mak lang days."
"Scottish","Light supper makes long life."
"Scottish","Light burdens break nae banes."
"Scottish","Lie the cur in the crub, he'll neither do nor let do."
"Scottish","Lie for him and he'll swear for you."
"Scottish","Let a horse drink what he will, but no when he will."
"Scottish","Let them care that come behind."
"Scottish","Laith to bed and laith to rise."
"Scottish","Let the kirk stand in the kirkyard."
"Scottish","Let the horns gang with the hide."
"Scottish","Let never sorrow come sae near your heart."
"Scottish","Let ne'er your gear owergang ye."
"Scottish","Let na the plough stand to slay a mouse."
"Scottish","Let ilka tub stand on its ain bottom."
"Scottish","Let his ain wand ding him."
"Scottish","Let him take a spring on his ain fiddle."
"Scottish","Let him tak a spring on his ain fiddle."
"Scottish","Let them laugh that win."
"Scottish","When my head's down my house is theeked."
"Scottish","When ye are weel, haud yoursel sae."
"Scottish","When the well's fu' it will rin owre."
"Scottish","When the wame's fu' the bones would be at rest."
"Scottish","When the steed's stown lock the stable door."
"Scottish","When the heart is full the tongue will speak."
"Scottish","When the cup is full, carry it even."
"Scottish","When the cow has been sold with firmness you may relax for a while and go for a better one."
"Scottish","When the cat's away the mice will play."
"Scottish","Too much familiarity breeds contempt."
"Scottish","When one is hungry, everything tastes good."
"Scottish","When you are serv'd a' the geese are water'd."
"Scottish","When love cools fauts are seen."
"Scottish","When he dies for age ye may quack for fear."
"Scottish","When falkland hill puts on his cap, the howe o' fife will get a drap, and when the bishop draws his cowl, look out for wind and weather fowl."
"Scottish","When drink's in wit's out."
"Scottish","When drink's in wit's oot."
"Scottish","When all fruits fails, welcome haws."
"Scottish","When ae door steeks anither ane opens."
"Scottish","When a' men speak nae man hears."
"Scottish","When a ewie's drowned she's dead."
"Scottish","When people have but little property, they take good care of it."
"Scottish","Willful waste makes woeful want."
"Scottish","Wrang has nae warrant."
"Scottish","Wrang count is nae payment."
"Scottish","Woo sellers ken aye woo-buyers."
"Scottish","Wonder at your auld shoon when ye hae gotten your new."
"Scottish","Wives maun be had whether gude or bad."
"Scottish","Wit bought makes folk wise."
"Scottish","Wise men o sittin."
"Scottish","Wipe wi' the water and wash wi' the towel."
"Scottish","Winter thunder bodes summer hunger."
"Scottish","When ye ca' the dog out o' your ain kail-yaird, dinna ca't into mine."
"Scottish","Wink at small faults, for you have great ones yourself."
"Scottish","When ye're gawn and coming the gate's no toom."
"Scottish","Wilfu' waste mak waefu' want."
"Scottish","Wide lugs an a short tongue is best."
"Scottish","Who invited you to the roast."
"Scottish","Who goes softly goes safely, and he that goes safely goes far."
"Scottish","While a person gets they can never lose."
"Scottish","Where vice is vengeance follows."
"Scottish","Where macgregor sits is head of the table."
"Scottish","Where drums beat, laws are dumb."
"Scottish","What's in your wame's not in your testament."
"Scottish","Wink at wee faults, your ain are muckle."
"Scottish","Twa words maun gang to that bargain."
"Scottish","What's waur than ill luck."
"Scottish","We are bound to be honest, and no to be rich."
"Scottish","We are aye to learn as lang as we live."
"Scottish","Waves will rise on silent water."
"Scottish","War makes thieves, and peace hangs them."
"Scottish","Want siller, want fish."
"Scottish","Want of wit is waur than want of health."
"Scottish","Unskilfull mediciners and horse-marshels slayes both man and beast."
"Scottish","Unfit are some who complain of common food."
"Scottish","We canna baith sup and blaw."
"Scottish","Twelve highlanders and a bagpipe make a rebellion."
"Scottish","We maun live by the living and no by the dead."
"Scottish","Twa wits are better than ane."
"Scottish","Twa hungry meltiths makes the third a glutton."
"Scottish","Twa fools in a house are a couple o'er mony."
"Scottish","Try your friend or you need him."
"Scottish","Try before you trust."
"Scottish","Truth and honesty keep the crown o' the causey."
"Scottish","Touch a gaw'd horse on the back and he'll fling."
"Scottish","Toom ruse means empty praise."
"Scottish","We'll bark oursels ere we buy dog."
"Scottish","Two hungry meals make the third a glutton."
"Scottish","Wha can haud what will awa'."
"Scottish","Ye canna mak a silk purse out o' a sow's lug."
"Scottish","What's in ye're wame is no in ye're testament."
"Scottish","What ye win at that, ye may lick aff a het girdle."
"Scottish","What we first learn we best ken."
"Scottish","What need a rich man be a thief."
"Scottish","What may be done at ony time will be done at nae time."
"Scottish","What cannot be cured must be endured."
"Scottish","What baites one, banes another."
"Scottish","Wha comes aftener and brings less."
"Scottish","We can shape their wylie coat, but no their word,"
"Scottish","Wha can help misluck."
"Scottish","What's my case the day may be yours the morn."
"Scottish","Were it not for hope the heart would break."
"Scottish","Well is that well does."
"Scottish","Welcome is the best dish in the kitchen."
"Scottish","Weil worth aw, that gars the plough draw."
"Scottish","Weel kens the mouse when pussie's in."
"Scottish","Wee things fley cowards."
"Scottish","Weans maun creep ere they gang."
"Scottish","We'll never know the worth of water till the well go dry."
"Scottish","We maun tak the crap as it grows."
"Scottish","Wha canna gie will little get."
"Scottish","Ye're black aboot the mou' for want o' kissing."
"Scottish","Ye'll mend when ye grow better."
"Scottish","Ye're no light where lean a'."
"Scottish","Ye're no fed on deaf nuts."
"Scottish","Ye're never pleas'd fu' nor fasting."
"Scottish","Ye're nae chicken for a' your cheeping."
"Scottish","Ye're like the miller's dog--ye lick your lips ere the pock be opened."
"Scottish","Ye're like the hens ye rin aye to the heap."
"Scottish","Ye're like a bad liver--the last day there's aye maist to do wi' ye."
"Scottish","Ye're good enough but ye're no braw enough."
"Scottish","Ye're sair fash'd hadding naething together."
"Scottish","Ye're busy seeking the thing that's no tint."
"Scottish","Ye're unco good and ye'll grow fair."
"Scottish","Ye're best when ye're sleeping."
"Scottish","Ye're a sweet nut if you were well cracked."
"Scottish","Ye're a foot behint the foremost."
"Scottish","Ye'll no sell your hen in a rainy day."
"Scottish","Ye'll no herry yoursel with your ain hands."
"Scottish","Ye'll never be sae auld with sae mickle honesty."
"Scottish","Ye'll neither dee for your wit nor be drowned for a warlock."
"Scottish","Ye'll neither dance or haud the candle."
"Scottish","Ye ca' hardest at the nail that drives fastest."
"Scottish","Ye're fear'd for the day ye never saw."
"Scottish","Your een's greedier than your guts."
"Scottish","What canna be cured maun be endured."
"Scottish","If ye dinna see the bottom, dinna wade."
"Scottish","Youth never casts for peril."
"Scottish","Your tongue rins aye before your wit."
"Scottish","Your thrift's as gude as the profit o' a yeld hen."
"Scottish","Your thrift's as good as the profit of a yell hen."
"Scottish","Your purse was steeked when that was paid for."
"Scottish","Your minnie's milk is no out of your nose yet."
"Scottish","Your meal's a' deagh."
"Scottish","Ye're of sae mony minds ye'll never be married."
"Scottish","Your gear will never o'er gang you."
"Scottish","Ye'll get the cat wi' the twa tails."
"Scottish","Your ame thinks your wysen's cutted."
"Scottish","Young folk may die, but auld folk maun die."
"Scottish","Young folk may dee, auld folk maun dee."
"Scottish","Young ducks may be auld geese."
"Scottish","You will never know a man until you do business with him."
"Scottish","You will never know a man till you do business with him."
"Scottish","You hae been smelling the bung."
"Scottish","Ye'se get your brose out of the lee side of the pot."
"Scottish","Ye're very foresighted, like Forsyth's cat."
"Scottish","Your head will never fill your father's bonnet."
"Scottish","Ye go far about seeking the nearest."
"Scottish","Ye'll ne'er cast saut on his tail."
"Scottish","Ye have ta'en the measure of his feet."
"Scottish","Ye have staid lang and brought little wi' you."
"Scottish","Ye have owre meikle loose leather about your chafts."
"Scottish","Ye have owre foul feet to come sae far ben."
"Scottish","Ye have nothing to do but suck and wag your tail."
"Scottish","Ye have fasted long and worried on a midge."
"Scottish","Ye have a crap for a' corn."
"Scottish","Ye hae the best end a' the string."
"Scottish","Ye have the wrang sow by the lug."
"Scottish","Ye hae a ready mouth for a ripe cherry."
"Scottish","Ye have tint the tongue of the trump."
"Scottish","Ye glowr'd at the moon, and fell on the midden."
"Scottish","Ye fand it where the Highlandman fand the tangs."
"Scottish","Ye dinna ken where the blessing may light."
"Scottish","Ye cut lang whangs out o' ither folk's leather."
"Scottish","Ye cut before the point."
"Scottish","Ye canna see the wood for trees."
"Scottish","Ye canna preach out of your ain poupit."
"Scottish","Ye canna make a silk purse of a sow's lug."
"Scottish","To marry is to halve your rights and double your duties."
"Scottish","Ye hae been smelling the bung."
"Scottish","Ye may not sit in Rome and strive with the Pope."
"Scottish","Ye'll find him where you left him."
"Scottish","Ye'll drink before me."
"Scottish","Ye'll beguile nane but them that lippens to you."
"Scottish","Ye'll be hang'd and I'll be harried."
"Scottish","Ye watna where a blessing may light."
"Scottish","Ye wad marry a midden for the muck."
"Scottish","Ye soon weary of well doing."
"Scottish","Ye should be a king of your word."
"Scottish","Ye never saw green cheese but your e'en reei'd."
"Scottish","Ye have tane't upon you as the wife did the dancing."
"Scottish","Ye may take the head for the washing."
"Scottish","Ye cam a day after the fair."
"Scottish","Ye may gang farther and fare waur."
"Scottish","Ye may drive the deil into a wife, but ye'll ne'er ding him oot o' her."
"Scottish","Ye may dight your neb and fly up."
"Scottish","Ye may be heard where ye're no seen."
"Scottish","Ye maun spoil or ye spin."
"Scottish","Ye look liker a thief than a horse."
"Scottish","Ye look like a rinner, quo' the deil to the lobster."
"Scottish","Ye live at the lug of the law."
"Scottish","Ye learn your father to get bairns."
"Scottish","Ye needna mak a causey tale o't."
"Scottish","The day has eyes, the night has ears."
"Scottish","The first fuf of a fat haggis is the baldest."
"Scottish","The first dish pleaseth all."
"Scottish","The feet are slow when the head wears snaw."
"Scottish","The feathers bear away the flesh."
"Scottish","The englishman greets, the irishman sleeps, but the scotchman gangs till he gets it."
"Scottish","The dorty dame may fa' in the dirt."
"Scottish","The devil's boots don't creak."
"Scottish","The Devil's a busy bishop in his own diocese."
"Scottish","Toom barrels mak much din."
"Scottish","The day hes eyne, the night hes ears."
"Scottish","The greatest clerks are not the wisest men."
"Scottish","The cure may be worse than the disease."
"Scottish","The cow that's first up gets the first of the dew."
"Scottish","The cow may dee ere the grass grow."
"Scottish","The biggest rogue cries loudest out."
"Scottish","The better day the better deed."
"Scottish","The best mirror is a friend's eye."
"Scottish","The banes of a great estate is worth the piking."
"Scottish","The banes o' a great estate are worth the picking."
"Scottish","The back and the belly hauds every ane busy."
"Scottish","The deil made souters sailors that can neither steer nor row."
"Scottish","The laird may be laird and need his hind's help."
"Scottish","The mother of mischief"
"Scottish","The men o' the east are pykin their geese, and sendin' their feathers here-awa there-awa."
"Scottish","The medicine that hurts the most is generally the best healer."
"Scottish","The master's eye makes the horse fat."
"Scottish","The mair mischief the better sport."
"Scottish","The mair haste, the war speed."
"Scottish","The mair cost the mair honour."
"Scottish","The lucky pennyworth sells soonest."
"Scottish","The less wit a man has, the less he kens the want o't."
"Scottish","The foremost hound grips the hare."
"Scottish","The langer we live we see the mae fairlies."
"Scottish","The gravest fish is an oyster; the gravest bird's an ool; the gravest beast's an ass; and the gravest man's a fool."
"Scottish","The knowledge of a trade is worth a handful of gold"
"Scottish","The king's errand may come in the cadger's gate."
"Scottish","The king lies doun, yet the warld rins round."
"Scottish","The higher up the greater fa'."
"Scottish","The higher the hill the laigher the grass."
"Scottish","The happy man canna be berried."
"Scottish","The grey mare may be the better-horse."
"Scottish","The greedy man and the gileynour are weel met."
"Scottish","That's my tale where's yours."
"Scottish","The langest day will have an end."
"Scottish","Sorrow is soon enough when it comes."
"Scottish","That's the piece a step-bairn never got."
"Scottish","Sudden friendship sure repentance."
"Scottish","Stuffing hauds out storms."
"Scottish","Stown dints are sweetest."
"Scottish","Step by step climbs the hill."
"Scottish","Staunin' dubs gather dirt."
"Scottish","Stable the steed, and put your wife to bed when there's night wark to do."
"Scottish","Spilt ale is waur than water."
"Scottish","Speak when ye're spoken to, do what ye're bidden, come when ye're ca'd."
"Scottish","Surfeits slay mair than the sword."
"Scottish","Spare when ye're young, and spend when ye're auld."
"Scottish","Swear by your burnt shins."
"Scottish","Sorrow and ill weather come unsent for."
"Scottish","Soon ripe, soon rotten."
"Scottish","Soon gotten, soon spent."
"Scottish","Some men are blind in their own cause."
"Scottish","Some hae a hantle o' fauts ye'er a ne'er-do-well."
"Scottish","Some folk look up, and ithers look down."
"Scottish","Some cut lang whangs aff ither folk's leather."
"Scottish","Some cannot do two things at once."
"Scottish","Soft fire makes sweet malt."
"Scottish","Speak good of pipers your father was a fiddler."
"Scottish","Take your ain will, & then ye'll no die of the pet."
"Scottish","The poor man pays for a'."
"Scottish","That's Halkerston's cow, a' the ither way."
"Scottish","That's for the father and no for the son."
"Scottish","That's for that as butter for fish."
"Scottish","That's but ae doctor's opinion."
"Scottish","That's as ill as the ewes in the yaird and nae dogs to hunt them."
"Scottish","That person is welcome who brings presents."
"Scottish","Tell nae tales out of the school."
"Scottish","Take your will o't as the cat did o' the haggis."
"Scottish","Suppers kills mair than doctors cure."
"Scottish","Take your thanks to feed your cat."
"Scottish","That's the best gown that gaes up and down the house."
"Scottish","Take the bite and buffet we't."
"Scottish","Take me not up before I fa'."
"Scottish","Take it a' and pay the merchant."
"Scottish","Take care of your pennies and your dollars will take care of themselves."
"Scottish","Take a pint and 'gree, the law's costly."
"Scottish","Take a man by his word and a cow by her horn."
"Scottish","Take a hair of the dog that bit you."
"Scottish","Tak your thanks to feed your cat."
"Scottish","Swear't to bed and sweer't up in the morning."
"Scottish","Take your venture as many a good ship has done."
"Scottish","They are good that are away."
"Scottish","There's measure in a' things, even in kail supping."
"Scottish","They that give you hinder you to buy."
"Scottish","They that drink longest live langest."
"Scottish","They that dance must pay the fiddler."
"Scottish","They that bourd with cats maun count upo' scarts. Thistles are a sailed for asses."
"Scottish","They talk of my drinking but never my thirst."
"Scottish","They may dunsh that gie the lunch."
"Scottish","They loo me for little that hate me for nought."
"Scottish","They censure my doing such a thing who neither consider my occasions of doing it, or what provocations I have had."
"Scottish","They that lie down for love shou'd rise for hunger."
"Scottish","They are not a' saints that get holy water."
"Scottish","They that live longest, see most."
"Scottish","They are eith hindered that are no fundersome."
"Scottish","They are aye good that are far away."
"Scottish","There's skill in gruel making."
"Scottish","There's no medicine for fear."
"Scottish","There's no iron so hard that rust won't fret it; and there's no cloth so fine that moths won't eat it."
"Scottish","There's naething sae gude on this side o' time but it might hae been better."
"Scottish","There's nae poackits in a shroud."
"Scottish","There's nae fules like auld fules."
"Scottish","The next time ye dance, wit whom ye take by the hand."
"Scottish","They are welcome that brings."
"Scottish","Thou shouldst not tell thy foe when thy foot sleeps."
"Scottish","To keep their ain hole clean, the minister's wife should put away old things as often as needed."
"Scottish","To frighten a bird is not the way to catch it."
"Scottish","Tine thimble tane thrift."
"Scottish","Time tries whinstanes."
"Scottish","Time tries a' as winter tries the kail."
"Scottish","Time tint is ne'er to be found."
"Scottish","Time and tide will tarry on nae man."
"Scottish","Time and thinking tame the strongest grief."
"Scottish","Till ither tinklers ill may ye 'gree."
"Scottish","They that lie dawn far love should rise up for hunger."
"Scottish","Three can keep a secret if twa be awa."
"Scottish","There's mair ways to the wood than ane."
"Scottish","Those who help themselves to what there is most of on the table, if not restrained they will do too much."
"Scottish","Thole well is good for burning."
"Scottish","This and better may do, but this and waur will never do."
"Scottish","They're a' ae sow's pick."
"Scottish","They that will not be counselled cannot be helped."
"Scottish","They that sow the wind, shall reap the whirlwind."
"Scottish","They that smell least, smell best."
"Scottish","They that see but your head dinna see your height."
"Scottish","They that rise wi' the sun hae their wark weel begun."
"Scottish","Thrift's gude revenue."
"Scottish","The thing that's done is no to do."
"Scottish","There's muckle ado when muirland folk ride--"
"Scottish","There are many fair words in the marriage making."
"Scottish","There are mair foxes than there are holes for."
"Scottish","There are mae ways to the wood then ane."
"Scottish","There are mae married than good house-hadders."
"Scottish","Them that likesna water brose will scunner at cauld steerie."
"Scottish","The worth of a thing is best kent by the want o't."
"Scottish","The wolf micht loss his teeth, but never his nature."
"Scottish","The warld is bound to nae man."
"Scottish","There grows nae grass at the market cross."
"Scottish","The tod keeps aye his ain hole clean."
"Scottish","There is a great differ amang market-days."
"Scottish","The thiefer-like the better sodger."
"Scottish","The thatcher said unto his man, Let's raise this ladder if we can. - But first let's drink, maister."
"Scottish","The still sow eats up a' draff."
"Scottish","The snail is as sune at its rest as the swallow."
"Scottish","The simple man's the begger's brother."
"Scottish","The scholar may war the master."
"Scottish","The poor man's shilling is but a penny."
"Scottish","The poor man's aye put to the warst."
"Scottish","Snapper, to stumble. Even the best of men may err."
"Scottish","The tod's whelps are ill to tame."
"Scottish","There is no friend, to a friend in mister."
"Scottish","There's mair ways than ane o' keeping craws frae the stack."
"Scottish","There's mair ways o' killing a dog than hanging him."
"Scottish","There's aye some water where the stirkie drowns."
"Scottish","There's a word in my wame, but it's ower far down."
"Scottish","There's a dub at every door, and before some doors there's twa."
"Scottish","There was never enough where naething was left."
"Scottish","There was never a fair word in flything."
"Scottish","There was ne'er a height but had a howe at the bottom o't."
"Scottish","There never was a five-pound note but there was a ten-pound road for it."
"Scottish","There grows nae grass at the cross."
"Scottish","There never came ill after good advertisement."
"Scottish","The pains o'ergangs the profit."
"Scottish","There is nane sae blind as them that wadna see."
"Scottish","There is naething ill said that's no ill tane."
"Scottish","There is mony a true tale tald in a jest."
"Scottish","There is little for the rake after the shool."
"Scottish","There is life in a mussel as lang is it cheeps."
"Scottish","There is aye life for a living man."
"Scottish","There is an end of an auld sang."
"Scottish","There is a skill in gruel making."
"Scottish","There is a measure in a' things."
"Scottish","There never came ill of good advisement."
"Scottish","Better be sonsy than soon up."
"Scottish","Better go to bed supperless than rise in debt."
"Scottish","Better gie the slight than tak it."
"Scottish","Better find iron than tine siller."
"Scottish","Better eat brown bread in youth than in eild."
"Scottish","Better day the better deed."
"Scottish","Better buy than barrow."
"Scottish","Better bide the Cooks nor the Mediciners."
"Scottish","Better a poor horse than no horse at all."
"Scottish","Better be the lucky man than the lucky man's son."
"Scottish","Better half hanged than ill married."
"Scottish","Better be ill spoken of by one before all than by all before one."
"Scottish","Better be idle than ill doing."
"Scottish","Better be freends at a distance than enemies at hame."
"Scottish","Better be deid than oot o' fashion."
"Scottish","Better auld debts than auld sairs."
"Scottish","Better an even down snaw than a driving drift."
"Scottish","Better a wee bush than nae beild."
"Scottish","As brisk as bottled ale."
"Scottish","Better bend than break."
"Scottish","Better lang something than soon naething."
"Scottish","Better to be alane than in ill company."
"Scottish","Better to be a cuckold and not know it than to not be one and everybody say so."
"Scottish","Better sma' fish than nane."
"Scottish","Better sit idle than work for nought."
"Scottish","Better saut than sour."
"Scottish","Better saucht w' little aucht than care wi' mony cows."
"Scottish","Better rue sit than rue flit."
"Scottish","Better rough an' sonsy than bare an' donsy."
"Scottish","Better hae than want."
"Scottish","Better leave to my faes than beg frae my friends."
"Scottish","Better half an egg than empty shells."
"Scottish","Better kiss a knave than cast out wi' him."
"Scottish","Better keep well than make well."
"Scottish","Better keep weel than make weel."
"Scottish","Better keep the devil at the door than turn him out of the house."
"Scottish","Better haud wi' the hounds than rin wi' the hare."
"Scottish","Better hand loose than in an ill tethering."
"Scottish","Better hand loose nor bound to an ill bakie."
"Scottish","Better a gude fame than a fine face."
"Scottish","Better not remove at all than do so and then regret it."
"Scottish","At open doors dogs come in."
"Scottish","Bare gentry are braging and beggars."
"Scottish","Bannocks are better than nae bread."
"Scottish","Bairns speak i' the field what they hear i' the ha'."
"Scottish","Bad legs and ill wives should stay at hame."
"Scottish","Auld wives and bairns mak fools o' physicians."
"Scottish","Auld springs gie me price."
"Scottish","Auld sparrows are ill to tame."
"Scottish","Better a toom house than an ill tenant."
"Scottish","Auld folk are twice bairns."
"Scottish","Barefooted folk shouldna tread on thorns."
"Scottish","At my leisure, as lairds dee."
"Scottish","As wight as a wabster's doublet, that ilka day taks a thief by the neck."
"Scottish","As the sow fills the draff sours."
"Scottish","As the fool thinks the bell clinks."
"Scottish","As the fool thinks ay the bell clinks."
"Scottish","As the auld cock craws the young one learns."
"Scottish","As lang lives the merry man as the sad."
"Scottish","Do not do strange acts merely for the sake of astonishing your friends."
"Scottish","Auld men are twice bairns."
"Scottish","Beauty is but skin deep."
"Scottish","Better a finger aff than aye wagging."
"Scottish","Better a dog fawn on you than bark at you."
"Scottish","Better a bit in the morning than fast a' day."
"Scottish","Best to be off wi' the auld love before we be on wi' the new."
"Scottish","Best to be aff wi the auld love afore we be on wi the new."
"Scottish","Beggars shoudna be choosers."
"Scottish","Beggars breed, and rich men feed."
"Scottish","Bees that have honey in their mouths have stings in their tails."
"Scottish","Bare-footed men need not tread upon thorns."
"Scottish","Beauty's muck when honour's tint."
"Scottish","Barefit fowk shouldnae tread on thorns."
"Scottish","Bear wealth weel, poortith will bear itsel."
"Scottish","Be the same thing that thou wald be cald."
"Scottish","Be slow in choosing a friend, but slower in changing him."
"Scottish","Be lang sick that ye may be soon hale."
"Scottish","Be happy while you're living, For you're a long time dead."
"Scottish","Be a friend to yoursel and others will."
"Scottish","Bastard brood are aye proud."
"Scottish","Better to be off with the old love before we be on with the new."
"Scottish","Bees that hae honey in their mouths hae stings in their tails."
"Scottish","Counsel is nae command."
"Scottish","Cutting out well is better than sewing up well."
"Scottish","Crooked carlin, quoth the carle to his wife."
"Scottish","Credit keeps the crown of the causey."
"Scottish","Credit is better than ill luck."
"Scottish","Craft maun hae claes, but truth gaes naked."
"Scottish","Covetous people will never be satisfied while they are alive."
"Scottish","Count siller after a' your kin."
"Scottish","Better to be idle than ill employed."
"Scottish","Count again is not forbidden."
"Scottish","Daughters pay nae debts."
"Scottish","Corn him well he'll work the better."
"Scottish","Confession is good for the soul."
"Scottish","Confessed faults are half-mended."
"Scottish","Confessed faults are half mended."
"Scottish","Confess'd faut is half amends."
"Scottish","Common saw sindle lies."
"Scottish","Comes to my hand like the bowl of a pint stoup."
"Scottish","Come with the wind and gae with the water."
"Scottish","Count not your chickens before they are hatched."
"Scottish","Delays are dangerous."
"Scottish","Do as the lasses do, say no, and take it."
"Scottish","Dirt parts gude company."
"Scottish","Dinna streetch yer airm farther than yer sleeve'll let ye."
"Scottish","Dinna gut yer fish till ye get them."
"Scottish","Diligence the mother of good luck."
"Scottish","Diligence is the mother of good luck."
"Scottish","Diet cures more than doctors."
"Scottish","Diet cures mair than doctors."
"Scottish","Danger and delight grow on one stalk."
"Scottish","Delays dangerous."
"Scottish","Danger past, God forgotten."
"Scottish","Deid men dae nae herm."
"Scottish","Death defies the doctors."
"Scottish","Death and marriage make term-days."
"Scottish","Death and drink-draining are near neighbours."
"Scottish","Daylight will peep through a small hole."
"Scottish","Daylicht will peep throu a smaa hole."
"Scottish","Dawted bairns do bear little."
"Scottish","Claw me and I'll claw thee."
"Scottish","Did ye ever fit counts wi' him?"
"Scottish","Binde fast, finde fast."
"Scottish","Come unca'd sits unser'd."
"Scottish","Bring a cow into the hall and she'll run the byre."
"Scottish","Break the legs o' an evil custom."
"Scottish","Bread and cheese is gude to eat when folk can get nae ither meat."
"Scottish","Blue are the hills that are far away."
"Scottish","Blood's thicker than water."
"Scottish","Blind men shoulna be judge o' colours."
"Scottish","Blaw the wind ne'er sae fast, it will lown at the last."
"Scottish","Burnt bairns dread fire."
"Scottish","Birds of a feather flock together."
"Scottish","But then was then, my lad, an' noo is noo;"
"Scottish","Better wear shoon than sheets."
"Scottish","Better wear out shoes than sheets."
"Scottish","Better wait on the cook than the doctor."
"Scottish","Better wade back mid water than gang forward and drown."
"Scottish","Better unborn than untaught."
"Scottish","Better to haud than to draw."
"Scottish","Better to bend than to break."
"Scottish","As ane flits anither flits, and that keeps mailins dear."
"Scottish","Birth's good but breeding's better."
"Scottish","Cast a bane in the deil's teeth."
"Scottish","Better to be ill spoken of by one before all than by all before one."
"Scottish","Christiecreek will come to ye."
"Scottish","Choose your wife with her nightcap on."
"Scottish","Choose your wife on saturday, not on sunday."
"Scottish","Children speak in the field what they hear in the house."
"Scottish","Charity begins at home, but shouldn't end there."
"Scottish","Charity begins at hame."
"Scottish","Charge nae mair shot than the piece 'll bear."
"Scottish","Broken freendships can be soother'd, but never soond."
"Scottish","Chairity begins at hame, but shouldna end there."
"Scottish","Clippet sheep will growe again."
"Scottish","Carrying saut to dysart and puddings to tranent."
"Scottish","Carrick for a man, kyle for a coo, cunningham for corn and ale, and a galloway for woo'."
"Scottish","Carelessness is worse than a thieve."
"Scottish","Can do is easily carried aboot wi' ane."
"Scottish","Calk is na sheares. Chalk's no shears."
"Scottish","Cadgers speaks of lead saddles."
"Scottish","By guess as the blind man felled the dog."
"Scottish","Buy friendship wi' presents, and it will be bought frae you."
"Scottish","Changes o' wark is a lightening o' hearts."
"Scottish","A great boaster is rarely a great performer."
"Scottish","A hungry stomach is aye craving."
"Scottish","A hungry man's any angry."
"Scottish","A hungry man smells meat far."
"Scottish","A hungry louse bites sair."
"Scottish","A house without a dog, a cat, or a little child is a house without joy or laughter."
"Scottish","A hook is weel tint to catch a salmon."
"Scottish","A gude goose may hae an ill gaiflin."
"Scottish","A fu' heart never lied."
"Scottish","A grunting horse and a graneing wife seldom fail their master."
"Scottish","A light purse makes a heavy heart."
"Scottish","A good word is as soon said as an ill one."
"Scottish","A good tale is no the waur o' being twice tale."
"Scottish","A good name is sooner tint that won."
"Scottish","A good goose indeed, but she hes an ill gansell."
"Scottish","A good diet cures more than doctors."
"Scottish","A good cow may hae an ill calf."
"Scottish","A gloved cat was never a good hunter."
"Scottish","As broken a ship has come to land."
"Scottish","A gude fellow is a costly name."
"Scottish","A man o' words, and no o' deeds, is like a garden fu' o' weeds."
"Scottish","A nod o' honest men's eneugh."
"Scottish","A new walk in an old field."
"Scottish","A new besom sweeps clean."
"Scottish","A muffled cat was ne'er a good hunter."
"Scottish","A misty morning may be a clear day."
"Scottish","A mean pot plaid never even."
"Scottish","A man's well or wae as he thinks himself sae."
"Scottish","A man's best fortune, or his worst is a wife."
"Scottish","A kiss and a drink o' water mak but a wersh breakfast."
"Scottish","A man of words, but no deeds, is like a garden full of weeds."
"Scottish","A liar should hae a good memory."
"Scottish","A man may be kind and gie little o' his gear."
"Scottish","A man is a lion in his own cause."
"Scottish","A man cannot wive and thrive the same year."
"Scottish","A man canna wive and thrive in the same year."
"Scottish","A man canna bear a' his kin on his back."
"Scottish","A man at forty is either a fool or a physician."
"Scottish","A little wit ser's a lucky man."
"Scottish","A friend in need is a friend indeed."
"Scottish","What may be done at any time will be done at no time."
"Scottish","A bit but and a bit ben maks a mim maiden at the board end."
"Scottish","A cock is valiant on his own dunghill."
"Scottish","A close mouth catches nae fleas."
"Scottish","A child may have too much of his mother's blessing."
"Scottish","A bold foe is better than a cowardly friend."
"Scottish","A blythe heart makes a blooming look."
"Scottish","A blyth heart makes a blomand visage."
"Scottish","A blind man needs no looking glass."
"Scottish","A fu' purse never lacks friends."
"Scottish","A black hen lays a white egg."
"Scottish","A crook in the forth is worth an earldom in the north."
"Scottish","A bird in the hand's worth two fleeing by."
"Scottish","A bird in the hand's worth twa fleeing by."
"Scottish","A bird in the hand is worth twa in the bush."
"Scottish","A begun turn is half ended."
"Scottish","A bawbee cat may look at a king."
"Scottish","A bad wound may heal, but a bad name will kill."
"Scottish","A bad reaper never gets a good sickle."
"Scottish","If the doctor cures, the sun sees it; if he kills, the earth hides it."
"Scottish","A blate cat makes a proud mouse."
"Scottish","A dry simmer ne'er made a dear peck."
"Scottish","A friend by thee is better than a brother far off."
"Scottish","A fou purse never lacks friends."
"Scottish","A fou man and a hungry horse haste hame."
"Scottish","A fool may speer questions than a wise man can answer."
"Scottish","A fool may gie a wise man a counsel."
"Scottish","A fool is happier thinking weel o' himself than a wise man is of others thinking weel o' him."
"Scottish","A fool and his money are soon parted."
"Scottish","A fisherman's walk - twa steps and overboard."
"Scottish","A cock's aye cruse on his ain midden-head."
"Scottish","A fair exchange is no robbery."
"Scottish","A cold needs the cook as much as the doctor."
"Scottish","A dry Lent, a fertile year."
"Scottish","A dreigh drink is better than a dreigh sermon."
"Scottish","A drap and a bite's but a sma' requite."
"Scottish","A dog winna youl if ye fell him wi' a bane."
"Scottish","A dish o' married love right sune grows cauld, and dosens drown to nane as folk grow auld."
"Scottish","A day to come seems longer than a year that's gone."
"Scottish","A crooning coo, a crawing hen, and a whistlin' maid were ne're very chancy."
"Scottish","A penny saved is a penny gained."
"Scottish","A fair offer is nae feud."
"Scottish","Ae good turn deserves anither."
"Scottish","An auld dog bites sicker."
"Scottish","All that's said in the kitchen should not be told in the hall."
"Scottish","Ale-sellers shouldna be tale-tellers."
"Scottish","Aft times the cautioner pays the debt."
"Scottish","Aft counting keeps friends lang thegither."
"Scottish","Ae swallow makes nae simmer."
"Scottish","Ae scabbed sheep will smit the hale hirdsel."
"Scottish","A nod of an honest man is good enough."
"Scottish","Ae gude friend is worth mony relations."
"Scottish","An auld sack craves much clouting."
"Scottish","Abundance of law breaks nane."
"Scottish","A's well that ends well."
"Scottish","A's no tint that's in hazard."
"Scottish","A's no gowd that glitters, nor maidens that wear their hair."
"Scottish","A's but lip-wit that wants experience."
"Scottish","A' things are good untry'd."
"Scottish","A' stuarts are no sib to the king."
"Scottish","A' Stewarts are no sib to the king."
"Scottish","Ae man may steal a horse where another daurna look ower the hedge."
"Scottish","And a pennyworth o' herring."
"Scottish","Any thing for a quiet life."
"Scottish","Any port in a storm."
"Scottish","Anger's short-lived in a gude man."
"Scottish","Ane will gar a thousand lie."
"Scottish","Ane never tines by doing good."
"Scottish","Ane may bind a sack before it be fou'."
"Scottish","Ane mans meat is another mans poyson."
"Scottish","Ane is no sae soon heai'd as hurt."
"Scottish","An auld mason makes a good barrow-man."
"Scottish","And slip na certainty for howp."
"Scottish","An auld pock is aye skailing."
"Scottish","An ill turn is soon done."
"Scottish","An ill shearer nexer gat a good hook."
"Scottish","An ill servant ne'er prov'd a good master."
"Scottish","An ill plea should be well pled."
"Scottish","An ill life, an ill end."
"Scottish","An ilka-day maks a sabbath-day daw."
"Scottish","An idle brain is the devil's shop."
"Scottish","A' are no friends that speaks us fair."
"Scottish","Ane beats the bush, and anither grips the bird."
"Scottish","A rowing stane gathers nae fog."
"Scottish","A' lasses, but where do the ill wives come frae?"
"Scottish","A taking hand will never want."
"Scottish","A sturdy beggar should hae a stout nae-sayer."
"Scottish","A sorrowfu' heart's aye dry."
"Scottish","A slothful man is a beggar's brother."
"Scottish","A sloathfull man is a beggers brother."
"Scottish","A sillerless man gangs fast thraugh the market."
"Scottish","A shored tree stands long."
"Scottish","A tale never tines in the telling."
"Scottish","A saft aiver was ne'er a gude horse."
"Scottish","A the con's no shorn by kempers."
"Scottish","A rich man's wooing need seldom be a long one."
"Scottish","A reproof is nae poison."
"Scottish","A proud mind and an empty purse gree ill thegither."
"Scottish","A Presbyterian minister had a son who was made Archdeacon of Ossery; when this was told to his father, he said, 'If my son will be a knave, I am glad that he will be an archknave.'"
"Scottish","A pound o' care will no pay an ounce of debt."
"Scottish","A plump widow needs no advertisement."
"Scottish","A person once wud, or deranged, is always suspected of being so, in the event of anything strange taking place."
"Scottish","Better tine life than gude fame."
"Scottish","A scots mist will weet an englishman to the skin."
"Scottish","A wee bush is better than nae bield."
"Scottish","A nod's as good as a wink to a blind horse."
"Scottish","A' are gude lasses, but where do the ill wives come frae?"
"Scottish","A word is enough to the wise."
"Scottish","A woman conceals what she knows not."
"Scottish","A wise men gets learning frae them that hae nane o' their ane."
"Scottish","A wise man wavers, a fool is fixed."
"Scottish","A wise man carries his cloak in fair weather, an' a fool wants his in rain."
"Scottish","A wise lawyer never goes to law himself."
"Scottish","A tale never loses in the telling."
"Scottish","A wee mouse can creep under a great corn stack."
"Scottish","A' are no thieves that dogs bark at."
"Scottish","A twapenny cat may look at the king."
"Scottish","A turn well done is soon done."
"Scottish","A toom purse makes a pratling merchant."
"Scottish","A toom pantry makes a thriftless gudewife."
"Scottish","A tocherless dame sits lang at hame."
"Scottish","A timid or cowardly person may be raised against the most valuable and useful things."
"Scottish","A thread will tie an honest man better than a chain a rogue."
"Scottish","A thistle is a fat salad for an ass's mouth."
"Scottish","A wilfu' man should be unco wise."
"Scottish","He that lives upon hope has a slim diet."
"Scottish","He that shaws his purse bribes the thief."
"Scottish","He that rides ahint anither doesna saddle when he pleases."
"Scottish","He that peeks through a keyhole may see what will vex him."
"Scottish","He that never eats flesh thinks harigals a feast."
"Scottish","He that marries a widow will have a dead man's head often thrown in his dish."
"Scottish","He that marries a beggar gets a louse for a tocher."
"Scottish","He that loves the law will get his fill of it."
"Scottish","He would gar you trow that the mune's made o' green cheese."
"Scottish","He that looks to freets, freets follow him."
"Scottish","He that sleeps with dogs maun rise with flaes."
"Scottish","He that lippens to bodden ploughs, his hand lies lee."
"Scottish","He that lends you hinders you to buy."
"Scottish","He that lends money to a friend has a double loss."
"Scottish","He that lends his pot may seethe his kail in his loof."
"Scottish","He that laughts at his ain sport spills the sport o't."
"Scottish","He that is welcome fares well."
"Scottish","He that invented the maiden first handselled her."
"Scottish","He that hes gold may buy land."
"Scottish","He that loves law will soon get his fill of it."
"Scottish","He that winna when he may shanna when he wad."
"Scottish","He has nae mair mense than a miller's horse."
"Scottish","He winna send you away with a sair heart."
"Scottish","He who hath gold hath fear, and he who hath none has sorrow."
"Scottish","He watsna whilk end o' him's upmost."
"Scottish","He wat's nae whilk end o' him's uppermost."
"Scottish","He was the bee that made the honey."
"Scottish","He wad gang a mile to flit a sow."
"Scottish","He tines bottles gathering straes."
"Scottish","He that shows his purse tempts the thief."
"Scottish","He that's born to be hanged will never be drowned."
"Scottish","He that sleeps wi' dogs maun rise wi' fleas."
"Scottish","He that winna thole maun flit mony a hole."
"Scottish","He that winna be ruled by the rudder maun be ruled by the rock."
"Scottish","He that wants content canna sit easy in his chair."
"Scottish","He that wad eat the kernel maun crack the nut."
"Scottish","He that teaches himself has a fool for his master."
"Scottish","He that spends his gear before he gets 't will hae but little gude o't."
"Scottish","He that speers all opinions comes ill speed."
"Scottish","He that has meikle wad aye hae mair."
"Scottish","He that's ill to himself will be good to naebody."
"Scottish","He maun be soon up that cheats the tod."
"Scottish","He that has one sheep in the flock will like all the rest the better for it."
"Scottish","He sits fu'."
"Scottish","He rises over early that is hangit ere noon."
"Scottish","He rides well that never falls: he is a perfect man who never errs."
"Scottish","He rides sicker that never fa's."
"Scottish","He ne'er did a gude darg that gaed grumbling about it."
"Scottish","He may weel soom wha has his head hauden up."
"Scottish","He may swim well that has his head hadden up."
"Scottish","He sleeps as dogs do when wives bake cakes."
"Scottish","He may find fault that canna mend."
"Scottish","He snites his nose in his neighbour's dish to get the brose himsel."
"Scottish","He made a moon-light flitting."
"Scottish","He looks as if the wood were fu' o' thieves."
"Scottish","He likes nae beef that grows on my banes."
"Scottish","He kens whilk side his cake is buttered on."
"Scottish","He is wise, that is ware in time."
"Scottish","He is a fairy Cook, that may not lick his own fingers."
"Scottish","He has't of kind he coft it not."
"Scottish","He has the best end of the string."
"Scottish","He may laugh that wins a'."
"Scottish","He that does you an ill turn will ne'er forgie you."
"Scottish","He'll gang mad on a horse wha's proud on a pownie."
"Scottish","He that has lost a wife and sixpence has lost sixpence."
"Scottish","He that has his hand in the lion's mouth maun tak it out the best way he can."
"Scottish","He that has but ae eye maun tent that well."
"Scottish","He that has a wife has a maister."
"Scottish","He that has a muckle nose thinks ilk ane speaks o't."
"Scottish","He that has a good crop may thole some thistles."
"Scottish","He that grapes in the dark may fyle his fingers."
"Scottish","He sits wi' sits on his neighbour's coat tail."
"Scottish","He that fishes afore the net, long e're he fish get."
"Scottish","He that has muckle wad aye hae mair."
"Scottish","He that deals in dirt has aye foul fingers."
"Scottish","He that comes first to the hill, may sit where he will."
"Scottish","He that clatters to himself talks to a fool."
"Scottish","He that cheats in daffin winna be honest in earnest."
"Scottish","He that canna make sport shou'd mar nane."
"Scottish","He that borrows and bigs, maks feasts and thigs, drinks an's no dry, nane a' these three are thrifty."
"Scottish","He that blaws best should bear the horn."
"Scottish","He that ance gets his fingers i' the dirt can hardly get them out again."
"Scottish","He that gets forgets, but he that wants thinks on't."
"Scottish","I hae a scottish tongue in my head - if they speak i'se answer."
"Scottish","I ne'er lo'ed water in my shoon, and my wame's made o' better leather."
"Scottish","I ken I hae a gude deal o' the cuddy in me."
"Scottish","I ken by your half-tale what your hale tale means."
"Scottish","I ken by my cog wha milks my cow."
"Scottish","I have tane the sheaf frae the mare."
"Scottish","I have seen mair than I have eaten."
"Scottish","I have mair ado than a dish to wash."
"Scottish","He woos me for cake and pudding."
"Scottish","I have another tow on my rock."
"Scottish","I would as soon see your nose be cheese, and the cat get the first bite of it."
"Scottish","I canna afford you both tale and lugs."
"Scottish","I can scarce believe you, ye speak sae fair."
"Scottish","I bake nae bread by your shins."
"Scottish","Hungry stewards wear mony shoon."
"Scottish","Hungry dogs are blithe of bursten puddings."
"Scottish","Hunger's gude kitchen to a cauld potato, but a wet divot to the lowe o' love."
"Scottish","Hunger is good Kitchen."
"Scottish","Hours are Time's shafts, and one comes winged with death."
"Scottish","I have baith my meat and my mense."
"Scottish","I'm speaking o' hay and you o' horse corn."
"Scottish","If the Devil were dead, folk would do little for God's sake."
"Scottish","If marriages are made in heaven, you twa hae few friends there."
"Scottish","If it winna be a gude shoe we'll mak a bauchel o't."
"Scottish","If it werena for the belly the back wad wear gowd."
"Scottish","If I had a dog as daft, I would shoot him."
"Scottish","If i had a dog as daft as you i would shoot him."
"Scottish","If ever ye make a lucky pudding, I shall eat the prick."
"Scottish","If better were within, better would come out."
"Scottish","I think mair o yer kindness than it's aa worth."
"Scottish","If a gude man thrive, a' thrives wi' him."
"Scottish","I winna mak a toil o' a pleasure, quo' the man when he buried his wife and was asked to speed it up."
"Scottish","I'm forejidged, forefoughten, and forejeskit."
"Scottish","I'm but beginning yet, quo' the wife when she run wud."
"Scottish","I'll no tell a lee for scant o' news."
"Scottish","I'll mak a shift, as Macwhid did wi' the preachin'."
"Scottish","I'll gar ye claw where its no yeuky."
"Scottish","I would rather see't than hear tell o't, as blind Pate said."
"Scottish","I would rather be your bible than your horse."
"Scottish","Honours change manners."
"Scottish","If ae sheep loup the dyke, will follow."
"Scottish","He's a poor beggar that canna gang by ae door."
"Scottish","Horns an' grey hair dinna aye come o' years."
"Scottish","He's like the craws, he eats himsel' out o' ply."
"Scottish","He's got his nose in a gude kail pat."
"Scottish","He's free o' fruit that wants an orchard."
"Scottish","He's born deaf on that side of the head."
"Scottish","He's auld an' cauld an' ill to lie beside."
"Scottish","He's as bold as a lammermuir lion."
"Scottish","He's an Aberdeen man, take his word again."
"Scottish","He's like the smith's dog - so wheel used to the sparks that he'll no burn."
"Scottish","He's a proud fox that winna scrape his ain hole."
"Scottish","He's mair worth hanging than hauding."
"Scottish","He's a hawk of a right nest."
"Scottish","He's a fool that forgets himself."
"Scottish","He'll wag as the bush wags."
"Scottish","He'll tell't to nae mair then he meets."
"Scottish","Better skaith sav'd than mends made."
"Scottish","He'll neither haud nor bind."
"Scottish","Do not speak about a thing, or wish it done, but do it."
"Scottish","He'll hing by the lug o't."
"Scottish","He's a silly chief that can neither do nor say."
"Scottish","Hear all parties."
"Scottish","He'll make an ill rinner that canna gang."
"Scottish","His tongue's nae slander."
"Scottish","His room's better than his company."
"Scottish","His meal's a' daigh."
"Scottish","His eggs hae a' twa yolks."
"Scottish","His bark is waur than his bite."
"Scottish","His auld brass will buy a new pan."
"Scottish","Him that lives on hope has a slim diet."
"Scottish","He's like the sing'd cat, better than he's bonny."
"Scottish","Hens are aye free of horse corn."
"Scottish","Hope puts that haste into zour heid."
"Scottish","He's wise that's timely wary."
"Scottish","He's weel worthy o' sorrow that buys it wi' his ain siller."
"Scottish","He's weel wordy sorrow that buys it."
"Scottish","He's twice fain that sits on a stane."
"Scottish","He's the gear that winna traik."
"Scottish","He's ta'en a start and an owerloup."
"Scottish","He's sairest dung that's paid wi' his ain wand."
"Scottish","He's no sae daft as he lets on."
"Scottish","Highest in the court, nearest the widdie."
"Scottish","Fair hechts will male fults fain."
"Scottish","Fast bind, fast find."
"Scottish","Fashious fools are easiest flisket."
"Scottish","Far away fowls have fair feathers."
"Scottish","Fancy kills and cures."
"Scottish","Fancy flees before the wind."
"Scottish","False friends are worst than bitter enemies."
"Scottish","False friends are worse than bitter enemies."
"Scottish","Forced love ne'er dae."
"Scottish","Fair words winna gar the pot boil."
"Scottish","Fiddlers dogs flesh flies come to feasts unca'd."
"Scottish","Faint heart never won a fair lady."
"Scottish","Experience teaches fools."
"Scottish","Expect not a very covetous person to be very honest for a long time. Experience keeps a dear school, but fools will learn in nae ither."
"Scottish","Every thing hath an end and a pudding has twa."
"Scottish","Every one kens best when his ain shoe nips him."
"Scottish","Every man's tale is good till anither's be tauld."
"Scottish","Every man's tale is good ?til another's be told."
"Scottish","Every man's man had a man, and that gar'd the Threave fa'."
"Scottish","Fair words winna mak the pat bile."
"Scottish","Fleying a bird is not the gate to grip it."
"Scottish","Forbid a fool a thing and that he will do."
"Scottish","For my faither likes melts!"
"Scottish","For fashion's sake as dogs gang to the market."
"Scottish","For a tint thing care not."
"Scottish","Fools shou'd na hae chapping sticks."
"Scottish","Fools set far trysts."
"Scottish","Fools make feasts, and wise men eat them."
"Scottish","Fools look to tomorrow; wise men use tonight."
"Scottish","Feckless fouk are aye fain of anither."
"Scottish","Follow love and it will flee thee: flee love and it will follow thee."
"Scottish","Feeling has nae fellow."
"Scottish","Flee as fast as you will, your fortune will be at your tail."
"Scottish","Fleas and a grining wife are waukrife bedfellows."
"Scottish","Flaes and a girning wife are wakerife bed fellows."
"Scottish","First come, first served."
"Scottish","Fire and water are gude servants but ill maisters."
"Scottish","Fire an servants but ill maisters."
"Scottish","Fight dog, fight bear; wha wins, deil care."
"Scottish","Every man slams the fat sows arse."
"Scottish","Fools look to tomorrow. Wise men use tonight."
"Scottish","Don't be penny wise and pound foolish."
"Scottish","Every man wears his belt his ain gait."
"Scottish","Dreigh bargains bode ill."
"Scottish","Dree out the inch when ye have thoi'd the span."
"Scottish","Draff's good enough for swine'."
"Scottish","Double drinks are good for drouth."
"Scottish","Double charges rive cannons."
"Scottish","Don't marry for money, you can borrow it cheaper."
"Scottish","Don't cry herrings till they are in the net."
"Scottish","E'ening grey and a morning red, put on your hat or ye'll weet your head; e'ening red an' a morning grey is a taiken o' a bonny day."
"Scottish","Don't be so busy that you have no time to get rich."
"Scottish","Eagles catches nae fleas."
"Scottish","Dogs will redd swine."
"Scottish","Dogs see people as companions; cats see people as staff."
"Scottish","Do what you ought come what will."
"Scottish","Do well and have well."
"Scottish","Do well and dread na shame."
"Scottish","Do the likeliest and hope the best."
"Scottish","He has meikle prayer but little devotion."
"Scottish","He'll no let grass grow at his heels."
"Scottish","Don't befriend neighbours who speak unreasonable things."
"Scottish","Even a haggis will run downhill."
"Scottish","Fire and water are good servants but bad masters."
"Scottish","Every man has his ain draff porch."
"Scottish","Every man for his ain hand, as henry wynd fought."
"Scottish","Every man does his work after his own fashion."
"Scottish","Every flow has its ebb."
"Scottish","Every fisher loves best the trout that is of his own tickling."
"Scottish","Every craw thinks his ain bird whitest."
"Scottish","Every cock crows loudest on his own dunghill, is a saying common to all nations."
"Scottish","Drink little that ye may drink lang."
"Scottish","Evening oats are good morning father."
"Scottish","Every man to his taste, as the man sayed when he kiss'd his cou."
"Scottish","Enough's as good as a feast."
"Scottish","Either live or die with honour."
"Scottish","Either a man or a mouse."
"Scottish","Eident youth maks easy age."
"Scottish","Egotism is an alphabet of one letter."
"Scottish","Eating and drinking wants but a beginning."
"Scottish","Eaten bread is soon forgotten."
"Scottish","Eat well's drink well's brother."
"Scottish","Every ane loups the dyke where it's laighest."
"Scottish","Hand in use is father of lair."
"Scottish","Gude wares mak a quick market."
"Scottish","He can hide his meat and seek mair."
"Scottish","Fine feathers make fine birds."
"Scottish","He begs frae them that borrowed frae him."
"Scottish","Forsake not God till you find a better master."
"Scottish","Hawks winna pike out hawks' een."
"Scottish","Have ye gear have ye nane, tine heart and a's gane."
"Scottish","Have I done you a service, see that you repay it."
"Scottish","He cares na whase bairns greet if his laugh."
"Scottish","Hang a thief when he's young, an he'll no steal when he's auld."
"Scottish","He comes aftener with the rake then the shool."
"Scottish","Hame is hame though it were never so hamely."
"Scottish","Hair and hair make the carlo's beard bare."
"Scottish","Haggis and a loyal dog are all a man needs for happiness."
"Scottish","Hae you gear, or hae you nane, tine heart a' is gone."
"Scottish","Hae gars a deaf man hear."
"Scottish","Had a halfpenny is gear enough."
"Scottish","Gut nae fish till ye get them."
"Scottish","Guid will should be tean in pairt peyment."
"Scottish","Hang hunger and rown drouth."
"Scottish","He has a saw for a' sairs."
"Scottish","He has licket the butter aff my bread."
"Scottish","He has gotten the whip hand of him."
"Scottish","He has gotten the boot and the better beast."
"Scottish","He has gotten a bite of his ain bridle."
"Scottish","He has got the heavy end of him."
"Scottish","He has gi'en up a trade and ta'en to stravaigin'."
"Scottish","He has feather'd his nest, flee when he likes."
"Scottish","He has coosten his cloak on the ither shouther."
"Scottish","He can see an inch before his nose."
"Scottish","He has an eye in his neck."
"Scottish","He 'II neither dance nor hold the candle."
"Scottish","He has a crap for a' corn."
"Scottish","He gat his kail in a riven dish."
"Scottish","He gangs early to steal, that cannot say Na."
"Scottish","He fells twa dogs wi' ae stane."
"Scottish","He does na aye ride when he saddles his horse."
"Scottish","He cuts near the wood."
"Scottish","He cuts awfu' near the wood."
"Scottish","He complains early that complains of his kail."
"Scottish","He has come to good by misguiding."
"Scottish","Friends are lost by calling often and calling seldom."
"Scottish","Gie ye meat, drink, an cleas, an ye'll beg amang yer freends."
"Scottish","Gie wearies."
"Scottish","Gie is a gude fellow, but he soon wearies."
"Scottish","Gie a bairn his will, and a whelp its fill, and nane o' them will e'er do weel."
"Scottish","Get what you can and keep what you have; that's the way to get rich."
"Scottish","Gentle paddocks have lang taes."
"Scottish","Gaunting gaes frae man to man."
"Scottish","Giff, gaff, makes good friends."
"Scottish","Friendship canna stand aye on ae side."
"Scottish","Do not throw aside good hay."
"Scottish","Fretful persons can be offended."
"Scottish","Fresh fish and poor friends grew soon ill far'd."
"Scottish","Foul water slockens fire."
"Scottish","Gude foresight furthers wark."
"Scottish","Fou o coortesy, fou o craft."
"Scottish","He brings a staff to break his ain head."
"Scottish","Fortune helps the hardy."
"Scottish","Fortune aye favours the active and bauld."
"Scottish","From saving comes having."
"Scottish","Gowd may be dear coft."
"Scottish","Give a dog an ill name and ye may hang him."
"Scottish","Greed is envy's auldest brither: scraggy wark they mak thegither."
"Scottish","Greed and envy are good neighbors."
"Scottish","Great barkers are nae biters."
"Scottish","Good-ware make a quick market."
"Scottish","Good watch prevents harm."
"Scottish","Good company on a journey is worth a coach."
"Scottish","Goe shoe the Geese."
"Scottish","God ne'er sent the mouth, but he sent the meat wi't."
"Scottish","God keep ill gear out o' my hands; for if my hand ance get it, my heart winna part wi't, sae prayed the gude earl of eglinton."
"Scottish","Give o'er when the play's good."
"Scottish","Glasses and lasses are bruckle ware."
"Scottish","Glasgow people, Greenock folk, and Paisley bodies."
"Scottish","Give you an inch you'll take an ell."
"Scottish","Give them tow enough and they'll hang themsels."
"Scottish","Give o'er when the plays good."
"Scottish","Give a man luck and fling him in the sea."
"Scottish","Give and take makes good friends."
"Scottish","Glum or morose people are difficult to manage."
"Scottish Gaelic","He that keeps not his arms in time of peace will have none in time of war."
"Scottish Gaelic","Green is the grass of the least trodden field."
"Scottish Gaelic","Great cry and little wool, as the Devil said when he sheared the sow."
"Scottish Gaelic","He thought the ocean his own under his spells."
"Scottish Gaelic","Get bait while the tide is out."
"Scottish Gaelic","I would know your gift by your graciousness."
"Scottish Gaelic","Friendship is as it's kept."
"Scottish Gaelic","Fingal's sword never had to cut twice."
"Scottish Gaelic","Good sword has often been in poor scabbard."
"Scottish Gaelic","He would cheat the heron of her egg, though her two eyes were fixed on him."
"Scottish Gaelic","It is not the nodding of heads that does the rowing."
"Scottish Gaelic","It's a long river whose head can't be found."
"Scottish Gaelic","If bad be the raven, his company is no better."
"Scottish Gaelic","If there be a God, and no one knows whether there be, leave it between ourselves and the dirks."
"Scottish Gaelic","Fear is worse than fighting."
"Scottish Gaelic","All that's yellow is not gold, and all white things are not eggs."
"Scottish Gaelic","It is not the priest's first story that should be believed."
"Scottish Gaelic","Hospitality to the exile, and broken bones to the oppressor."
"Scottish Gaelic","As unsteady as an egg on a stick."
"Scottish Gaelic","It's better to try than to hope."
"Scottish Gaelic","Where the stream is shallowest, greatest is its noise."
"Scottish Gaelic","A friend's eye is a good looking-glass."
"Scottish Gaelic","A great sea comes not through a narrow strait."
"Scottish Gaelic","A man can sleep on every hurt but his own."
"Scottish Gaelic","A man may force a livelihood, but cannot force fortune."
"Scottish Gaelic","A stack can be eaten in cakes."
"Scottish Gaelic","As the bird goes from leaf to leaf, the yawn goes from man to man."
"Scottish Gaelic","A favour often costs more than what's hard-bought."
"Scottish Gaelic","Every straw is a thorn at night."
"Scottish Gaelic","Better than gold is a tale rightly told."
"Scottish Gaelic","Better to hear the evil than see it."
"Scottish Gaelic","Don't give in to spells, they won't give in to you."
"Scottish Gaelic","Don't quote your proverb 'til you bring your ship to port."
"Scottish Gaelic","Each draws water to his own mill."
"Scottish Gaelic","Even a haggis will run downhill."
"Scottish Gaelic","Every flood will have an ebb."
"Scottish Gaelic","All the keys in the land do not hang from one girdle."
"Scottish Gaelic","Though separation be hard, two never met but had to part."
"Scottish Gaelic","The heaviest ear of corn bends its head lowest."
"Scottish Gaelic","The mother of dissension is smaller than a mite."
"Scottish Gaelic","The owl is mourning, rain is coming."
"Scottish Gaelic","The roe is swift enough without setting the dogs on her."
"Scottish Gaelic","The storm of reeds is loud till you go through them."
"Scottish Gaelic","The yellow dung-fly makes the loudest hum."
"Scottish Gaelic","It's difficult to draw pure water from a dirty well."
"Scottish Gaelic","Though near be the stone to the ground, closer is the help of Coivi."
"Scottish Gaelic","The child is sadly hurt that doesn't tell his illness."
"Scottish Gaelic","Truth is often harsh to tell."
"Scottish Gaelic","When the cup is fullest it is most difficult to carry."
"Scottish Gaelic","Wrong cannot rest, nor ill deed stand."
"Scottish Gaelic","You have a raven's knowledge."
"Scottish Gaelic","You may take Mull from me, but you can't take sea and land from me."
"Scottish Gaelic","Youth foresees not poverty, nor the fool his mischief."
"Scottish Gaelic","What's done in the corner will come to the hearth."
"Scottish Gaelic","There are many ways of killing a dog without choking him with butter."
"Scottish Gaelic","Put your hand into the creel, and take your choice of flounders."
"Scottish Gaelic","It's easy to keep a castle that's not besieged."
"Scottish Gaelic","Kings will find armies, and the world men."
"Scottish Gaelic","Like the herb plucked on Sunday, it does neither good nor ill."
"Scottish Gaelic","Listen to the mountain wind, 'til the streams abate."
"Scottish Gaelic","Long sleep makes hot rowing."
"Scottish Gaelic","Many a shot goes into the heather."
"Scottish Gaelic","Neither draw me without cause, nor return me without honour."
"Scottish Gaelic","The good speech of an ass is better than the bad word of a prophet."
"Scottish Gaelic","One cow breaks the fence, and a dozen leap it."
"Scottish Gaelic","The crook in the old stick is ill to take out."
"Scottish Gaelic","Raindrops come heavy on a house unthatched."
"Scottish Gaelic","Renown is more lasting than life."
"Scottish Gaelic","Sweet sings each bird in his own grove."
"Scottish Gaelic","Take it like the Bard's Point."
"Scottish Gaelic","Tell not thy mind to thy foolish friend, nor to thy wise enemy."
"Scottish Gaelic","The best of nursing may overcome the worst disease."
"Scottish Gaelic","Often has wise counsel comes from a fool's head."
"Scotts","Better to bend than break"
"Scotts","Ask thy purse what thou should spend."
"Scotts","Ask thy purse what thou should spend."
"Scotts","Better to bend than break."
"Seneca","Even in paradise, living all alone would be hell."
"Seneca","Give your host a little something when you leave; little presents are little courtesies and never offend."
"Seneca","Great chiefs prove their worthiness."
"Seneca","In twenty-four hours, a house can become a patriarch."
"Seneca","Love one another and do not strive for another's undoing."
"Seneca","The more you ask how far you have to go, the longer your journey seems."
"Senegalese","When a musician hath forgotten his note, He makes as though a crumb stuck in his throat."
"Senegalese","If the eye do not admire, the heart will not desire."
"Senegalese","It is better to be loved than feared."
"Senegalese","Lies that build are better than truths that destroy."
"Senegalese","People are man's medicine."
"Senegalese","If the dog is not at home, he barks not."
"Senegalese","When a mouse makes fun of a cat, there is a hole."
"Senegalese","It is better to walk fast than to grow angry at the forest."
"Senegalese","The frog likes water, but not boiling water."
"Senegalese","Haste and hurry can only bear children with many regrets along the way."
"Senegalese","An intelligent enemy is worth more than a stupid friend."
"Senegalese","Little by little, one catches the monkey in the jungle."
"Senegalese","If a centipede loses a leg, it does not prevent him from walking."
"Senegalese","Poverty is an older daughter of laziness."
"Senegalese","The giant tree grows from a grain."
"Senegalese","The future emerges from the past."
"Senegalese","The frog likes water, but not boiling water."
"Senegalese","The cow steps on the calf, but she does not hate it."
"Senegalese","The chameleon changes color to match the earth, the earth doesn't change color to match the chameleon."
"Senegalese","Spilled water is better than a broken jar."
"Senegalese","The heart is not a knee that can be bent."
"Senegalese","It is better to travel alone than with a bad companion."
"Senegalese","The truth is like gold: keep it locked up and you will find it exactly as you first put it away."
"Senegalese","Your ears are wiser than you are."
"Senegalese","People are man's medicine."
"Senegalese","Not everything can be seen, but everything exists."
"Senegalese","Nobody tells all he knows."
"Senegalese","Rising early makes the road short."
"Senegalese","What a cow eats a calf drinks."
"Senegalese","No matter how strong you are, you always find someone stronger."
"Senegalese","You cannot run and scratch your ass at the same time."
"Senegalese","When the branches of trees in the forest are fighting, the roots are kissing."
"Senegalese","When a musician hath forgotten his note, He makes as though a crumb stuck in his throat."
"Senegalese","When a mouse makes fun of a cat, there is a hole."
"Senegalese","The opportunity that God sends does not wake up those that are asleep."
"Senegalese","What you give to others bears fruit for yourself."
"Senegalese","The jungle is stronger than the elephant."
"Senegalese","Trusting in wealth is like looking for feathers on turtles."
"Senegalese","To spend the night in anger is better than to spend it repenting."
"Senegalese","Three kinds of people die poor: those who divorce, those who incur debts, and those who move around too much."
"Senegalese","The wolf dies where the pack is."
"Senegalese","The strong don't need clubs."
"Senegalese","The night is the king of the shadows."
"Senegalese","What's the use of consulting a dead man's horoscope?"
"Senegalese","Ambition begets troubles."
"Senegalese","It is the hunter who always beats the lions, because it is the hunter who always tells the stories."
"Senegalese","Man is always in a scurry."
"Senegalese","?There can be no peace without understanding."
"Senegalese","A healthy ear can stand hearing sick words."
"Senegalese","A lobster loves water, but not when he's being cooked in it."
"Senegalese","A rotten fish pollutes the whole kitchen."
"Senegalese","All birds will flock to a fruitful tree."
"Senegalese","An empty belly has no ears."
"Senegalese","An intelligent enemy is better than a stupid friend."
"Senegalese","An intelligent enemy is worth more than a stupid friend."
"Senegalese","An intelligent foe is better than a stupid friend."
"Senegalese","Don't try to make someone hate the person he loves, for he will still go on loving, but he will hate you."
"Senegalese","Eat coconuts while you have teeth."
"Senegalese","Even Buddhist priests of the same temple quarrel occasionally."
"Senegalese","In the end we will conserve only what we love; we will love only what we understand; we will understand only what we are taught."
"Senegalese","Little by little, one catches the monkey in the jungle."
"Senegalese","A tree that grows in the shade of another one will die small."
"Senegalese","Even the fall of a dancer is a somersault."
"Senegalese","Kings have no friends."
"Senegalese","It is better to be loved than feared."
"Senegalese","Lies that build are better than truths that destroy."
"Senegalese","If you wait for tomorrow, tomorrow comes. If you don't wait for tomorrow, tomorrow comes."
"Senegalese","If you had teeth of steel, you could eat iron coconuts."
"Senegalese","If the eye do not admire, the heart will not desire."
"Senegalese","If the dog is not at home, he barks not."
"Senegalese","If a centipede loses a leg, it does not prevent him from walking."
"Senegalese","He may say that he loves you, wait and see what he does for you."
"Senegalese","Haste and hurry can only bear children with many regrets along the way."
"Senegalese","It is better to walk fast than to grow angry at the forest."
"Serbian","The glory of ancestors should not prevent a man winning glory for himself."
"Serbian","Good deeds are the best prayer."
"Serbian","A thorn pierces young skin more quickly than old."
"Serbian","A greedy man God hates."
"Serbian","A greedy father has thieves for children."
"Serbian","A foolish fox is caught by one leg, but a wise one by all four."
"Serbian","To serve our elders is a duty, our equals it is polite, but serving the young is humiliating."
"Serbian","To believe is easier than investigation."
"Serbian","Solitude is full of God."
"Serbian","Time builds castles, and time destroys them."
"Serbian","There's nothing worse than a person looking for a quarrel."
"Serbian","The wound heals, the scar remains."
"Serbian","The glory of ancestors should not prevent a man from winning glory for himself."
"Serbian","The first marriage is a plate of honey, the second a glass of wine, and the third is a cup of poison."
"Serbian","Quick to believe is quickly deceived."
"Serbian","Peace pays what war wins."
"Serbian","One devil does not scratch out another devil's eyes."
"Serbian","Mother earth promised to tell her secrets to heaven."
"Serbian","Let war be waged in the house of him who wants it."
"Serbian","Jealousy and fear have big eyes."
"Serbian","To set fire to a church is not so bad as to speak ill of a virgin."
"Serbian","Your ancestor's glory should not prevent you from winning your own."
"Serbian","Money and the devil know no rest."
"Serbian","When big bells ring, little ones are not heard."
"Serbian","It is better to be threatened by the sword of a Turk than by the pen of a German."
"Serbian","It's better to blush once than to pale a hundred times."
"Serbian","You never get a headache from winning."
"Serbian","You can judge what you make by what others make."
"Serbian","You are not being honest if you burn your tongue and don't tell everyone else that the soup is hot."
"Serbian","Where there are no dogs the wolves will howl."
"Serbian","You don't need a candle to look for a fool."
"Serbian","When coins rattle, philosophers are silent."
"Serbian","Warm bed, cold food."
"Serbian","When a stepmother moves in, the father becomes a stepfather."
"Serbian","What makes you tired makes you stronger."
"Serbian","What is the use of a big wide world when your shoes are too small?"
"Serbian","What is it to be a gentleman? Firstly it is to be thankful and secondly to complain."
"Serbian","We won the war, but we lost peace."
"Serbian","We won the war, but lost peace."
"Serbian","When your wine is finished, conversation ends; when your money has been spent, you lose your friends."
"Serbian","A greedy man God hates."
"Serbian","Better to blush once than pale a hundred times."
"Serbian","Better retreat in honor than advance in disgrace."
"Serbian","Believing is easier than investigating."
"Serbian","Be humble for you are made of earth. Be noble for you are made of stars."
"Serbian","An empty knapsack is heavier to carry than a full one."
"Serbian","After a trial one party is naked and the other without a shirt."
"Serbian","Complain to someone who can help you."
"Serbian","A man without enemies is worthless."
"Serbian","A wife is frightened of her first husband and a husband is frightened of his second wife."
"Serbian","A greedy father has thieves for children."
"Serbian","A good reputation is better than a golden girdle."
"Serbian","A good deed is the best form of prayer."
"Serbian","A foolish fox is caught by one leg, but a wise one by all four."
"Serbian","A dead man pays no debts."
"Serbian","A clean pig makes lean bacon."
"Serbian","A tree near the road is easily cut down."
"Serbian","It is easier to believe than to go and ask."
"Serbian","A thorn pierces young skin more quickly than old."
"Serbian","It is easy to advise the wise."
"Serbian","Do not measure the wolf's tail till he is dead."
"Serbian","It is not at the table but in prison that you learn who your true friends are."
"Serbian","It is better to make money in the straw market than to lose it in the money market."
"Serbian","It is difficult to find a man but it's easy to recognize him."
"Serbian","It does no harm now and then to burn a candle for the devil."
"Serbian","If you humble yourself too much, you will get trampled on."
"Serbian","Everyone is worth more than his neighbor and less than his son."
"Serbian","It is easy to tempt a frog to the river."
"Serbian","Even the devil knows what is right, but he will not do it."
"Serbian","Good deeds are the best prayer."
"Serbian","Grain by grain, a loaf; stone by stone, a castle."
"Serbian","He who drinks on credit, gets drunk twice."
"Serbian","I am scratching myself where I am itching."
"Serbian","If you can't hold on to the horse's mane then don't try to hang on to its tail."
"Serbo Croatian","Where there are many midviwes, children will be feeble."
"Serbo Croatian","The one who can gets two."
"Serbo Croatian","Trust yourself and your horse."
"Serbo Croatian","There's no bread without hoe."
"Serbo Croatian","There's no quiet child nor young grandmother."
"Serbo Croatian","Those who study will know, those who save will have."
"Serbo Croatian","Three times measure, one time cut."
"Serbo Croatian","There is no fire without smoke."
"Serbo Croatian","Us and Russians - two hundred millions."
"Serbo Croatian","What you can do today do not leave off for tomorrow."
"Serbo Croatian","Where ever you go, come back to your home."
"Serbo Croatian","The first thing that God created was his own beard."
"Serbo Croatian","Who has wine for dinner, he has water for breakfast."
"Serbo Croatian","Who sows wind will harvest storm."
"Serbo Croatian","Where people are promising much to you, bring a small bag."
"Serbo Croatian","When cat is absent, mice dance."
"Serbo Croatian","A splinter doesn't land far from the trunk."
"Serbo Croatian","The early bird catches the first worm."
"Serbo Croatian","A pan was mocking a pot because his mouth is big."
"Serbo Croatian","A pear tree cannot bear an apple."
"Serbo Croatian","Who digs a trap for others ends up in it himself."
"Serbo Croatian","A crow doesn't pick out another crow's eyes."
"Serbo Croatian","An ugly girl blames the mirror."
"Serbo Croatian","Cute lamb sucks two ewes."
"Serbo Croatian","Don't plant pumpkins where they never sprouted."
"Serbo Croatian","One who gets up early is doubly lucky."
"Serbo Croatian","God is high above, and Russia is far away."
"Serbo Croatian","Grandma gave a dinar to dance, and two to stop."
"Serbo Croatian","Quiet water wears down a mountain."
"Serbo Croatian","If one saws pumpkins with the devil, they will bash onto one's head."
"Serbo Croatian","A sparrow in the hand is better then a pigeon on the branch."
"Serbo Croatian","Iron is worked when it's still hot."
"Serbo Croatian","Not all shiny things are golden."
"Serbo Croatian","First leap, and then say ""hop""."
"Serbo-Croatian","If sorrow would not talk it would die."
"Serbo-Croatian","If strokes are good to give, they are good to receive."
"Serere","Equality is difficult, but superiority is painful."
"Serere","Equality is not easy, but superiority is painful."
"Shan","Do not bathe if there is no water."
"Shan","Do not bathe if there is no water."
"Shan","Do not bathe if there is no water."
"Shawnee","Do not hurt your neighbor, for it is not him you wrong but yourself."
"Shenandoah","It is no longer good enough to cry peace, we must act peace, live peace and live in peace."
"Shona","One who refused advice was later seen bleeding."
"Shona","No matter how thoroughly a crow may wash, it remains ever black."
"Shona","What can be expected to be dropped is held in the hands, but what is in the heart I shall die with."
"Shona","The cook does not have to be a beautiful woman."
"Shona","It is mysterious if a baboon falls from a tree."
"Shona","The chakata fruit on the ground belongs to all, but the one on the tree is for she who can climb."
"Shona","Green maize abounds at the houses of those without teeth."
"Shona","A new thing does not come to she who sits, but to she who travels."
"Shona","A hunter has no mysterious notions about the forest."
"Shoshone","You must always be careful with something that is greater than you are."
"Sicilian","Crooked wood is straightened with fire."
"Sicilian","We keep an eye on the scorpion and the serpent, but we do not watch out for the millipede."
"Sicilian","Watch out for the unexpected mushroom."
"Sicilian","Walk with your slippers until you can find your shoes."
"Sicilian","The war is lost for too much advice."
"Sicilian","The pardon arrives after the man was hung."
"Sicilian","The living who is absent is like a dead man."
"Sicilian","The fellow roasts his fish in the flames of a fire."
"Sicilian","The barking of dogs does not reach heaven."
"Sicilian","That grief is light which is capable of counsel."
"Sicilian","That fellow roasts his fish in the flames of a fire."
"Sicilian","Keep watch for the appearing mushroom."
"Sicilian","A rock offered by a friend is like an apple."
"Sicilian","A piece of meat with eyes."
"Sicilian","A person eating must make crumbs."
"Sicilian","You can't have meat without the bone."
"Sicilian","Pee on the ruins before they build a temple over them."
"Sicilian","One hair from the head of a woman pulls more than a ship's hauser."
"Sicilian","Olives harvested with a heavy staff will produce poor tasting oil."
"Sicilian","On Saint Candelora day, if it's snowing or raining, there'll be another forty days of winter."
"Sicilian","On the new year daylight increases as much as a man's stride."
"Sicilian","Once broken, the pack-saddle will follow."
"Sicilian","Old wood lights better but burns out quicker."
"Sicilian","One beautiful day doesn't make a summer."
"Sicilian","Not all the red-faced are drunkards nor all the yellow-faced sick."
"Sicilian","One Mass now is worth a hundred after you're gone."
"Sicilian","One occasion doesn't make the rule."
"Sicilian","Once you've used enough seasoning; using more will spoil the dish."
"Sicilian","Old age is desired, but when it comes, it's detested."
"Sicilian","Nobility is less esteemed when it lacks wealth."
"Sicilian","Nut and fig trees need to be pruned aggressively."
"Sicilian","Pass by the place that was robbed with confidence."
"Sicilian","Petrafendola from Modica, Bread from Ragusa, and olives from Chiaramonte."
"Sicilian","Nunziata, fix the salad, a little vinegar, lots of oil, four reckless mouthfuls, and then some drinks from the jug."
"Sicilian","Pigeon and chick, by your beak you attain beauty."
"Sicilian","Nothing can end favorably without heavenly guidance."
"Sicilian","Not every pain comes to harm you."
"Sicilian","Not all the spikes of wheat go on the wheat pile."
"Sicilian","One sins and is enthroned, another sins and is crucified."
"Sicilian","Oh, oh, oh! three times I say it, who falls into poverty loses his friends."
"Sicilian","Overwhelming courtesy raises concern that you may be being deceitful."
"Sicilian","Make your testimony and confessions while you're eating sausages and macaroni."
"Sicilian","Nobel and rich are the Messinans, heads of the kingdom are the Palermitani, the Catanians have a contented heart, and in Cefalu they are rich with fish."
"Sicilian","People with money and friends don't esteem justice."
"Sicilian","Pee on the ruins before they build a temple over them."
"Sicilian","Pears, fill the chest; prunes, eat one."
"Sicilian","Peace won't settle where a woman rules."
"Sicilian","Patti, has beautiful fruits."
"Sicilian","Partinico is a good town, good wine and low costs."
"Sicilian","Palermo for its illustrious writers and Messina for its harbor."
"Sicilian","Palermo is a tolerant man, whoever goes, goes and whoever comes, comes."
"Sicilian","Owning land is like fighting a war."
"Sicilian","One tap on the keg and one on the spout."
"Sicilian","Oregano and wild mint, if one does poorly, the other is worse."
"Sicilian","Open your eyes and your ears when contracting, because the agreed upon circumstances mean a lot."
"Sicilian","Only your real friends will tell you when your face is dirty."
"Sicilian","Only Sperlinga said no."
"Sicilian","Only he knows how to command, who knows the one who is commanding."
"Sicilian","Only God can judge and foretell."
"Sicilian","One who lives within his means can be said to be rich."
"Sicilian","One who is never satisfied is always in need."
"Sicilian","One who believes everything he's told is as naive as one who fetches water with a sieve."
"Sicilian","Palermitani, two tar?s for the bread drippings and two grains for bread."
"Sicilian","Man is valued for his word, the ox for his horns."
"Sicilian","Man is a hunter."
"Sicilian","Meager possessions are highly valued."
"Sicilian","May waters drench peasants and lords or gentlemen, as many of them as it encounters."
"Sicilian","Marry your children with their peers so you won't regret it someday."
"Sicilian","Married people and mules, leave them alone."
"Sicilian","Marriages and bishoprics are arranged in heaven."
"Sicilian","Marriage would be beautiful if it weren't for cradle rocking."
"Sicilian","Marriage must occur early or it will never happen."
"Sicilian","Marriage and maids, don't suggest them because you'll be cursed."
"Sicilian","Men are not weighed by hundredweight, but by the ounce, like gold."
"Sicilian","Man loses his good judgement over women and wine."
"Sicilian","Men in glass houses should not throw stones."
"Sicilian","Man is like the sea: if he doesn't produce today, he'll produce tomorrow."
"Sicilian","Pigs and children will turn out the way you teach them."
"Sicilian","Mallow will cure you."
"Sicilian","September brings acorn and olives."
"Sicilian","Make agreements without guile."
"Sicilian","Luck is the friend of jackasses and the crazy; it's a mortal enemy of the virtuous."
"Sicilian","Lovers' quarrels increase love."
"Sicilian","Love, everyone says it's bitter, but everyone wants to see for themselves if it's true."
"Sicilian","Love, coughing, and smoke can't be kept concealed."
"Sicilian","Many are the lords of the cities and the slaves of women."
"Sicilian","Neither believed nor understood is the poor who's offended."
"Sicilian","No one will choose you if they're not like you."
"Sicilian","No one is perfect."
"Sicilian","No one ever boasted without paying dearly."
"Sicilian","No one does something for nothing."
"Sicilian","No matter how often a pitcher goes to the water, it is broken in the end."
"Sicilian","Night time sleep counsels man."
"Sicilian","New love throws out old love."
"Sicilian","New advice for a new business."
"Sicilian","Never trust your friend with a secret unless he is mute or a dog."
"Sicilian","Meat makes meat, bread makes a paunch, and wine makes you dance."
"Sicilian","Neither the baskets of the farmer nor the baskets of the abbey."
"Sicilian","No one will steal it from you if they don't know you have it."
"Sicilian","Necessity is the mother of invention."
"Sicilian","Mountains will never join other mountains but men will confront other men."
"Sicilian","Most often a good boss makes a good steward."
"Sicilian","Morning makes the day."
"Sicilian","More die because they live to eat, than die by the sword."
"Sicilian","Monreale, a city without comfort, either it rains, or the wind blows, or bells ring for the dead."
"Sicilian","Monks have both a capacious sleeve and a tight sleeve."
"Sicilian","Milk and wine together make an excellent poison."
"Sicilian","Messina is clever, Palermo is pompous; Messina is rich, Palermo is greedy."
"Sicilian","Neither you happy nor I consoled."
"Sicilian","Speak little in the company of the old."
"Sicilian","Seek goodness and expect evil."
"Sicilian","Swarms in March make good honey."
"Sicilian","Summary justice is a summary offense."
"Sicilian","Strong men, harmful at home."
"Sicilian","Strive to be that which you want to appear to be."
"Sicilian","Strike while the iron is hot."
"Sicilian","Stay within your level of competence."
"Sicilian","Starting is always difficult, but every desire is attainable."
"Sicilian","Stand by your own whether right or wrong."
"Sicilian","Take advice from the prudent and you'll never regret it."
"Sicilian","Spend Easter and Christmas with whomever you want, but celebrate Mardi Gras with your own."
"Sicilian","Take care of the manger and water the animals at the drinking trough."
"Sicilian","Spare the ox in August so that it's ready to work in October."
"Sicilian","Sow with the Sirocco but not with the North wind."
"Sicilian","Sow fava bean and flax with confidence while you still have a full silo."
"Sicilian","Sore is the mouth that loses its first tooth."
"Sicilian","Sometimes the rope is too short, sometimes the well is too deep."
"Sicilian","Sit, sit, daughter, sit, because good fortune is coming."
"Sicilian","Sister Nicola said: Don't put the pasta basket in the water until it's boiling."
"Sicilian","Silence is the soul of negotiation."
"Sicilian","Sickness, if it doesn't kill, it purifies."
"Sicilian","Spit at heaven and you'll get it back in your face."
"Sicilian","The bad collector makes the bad payer."
"Sicilian","The bride's faults are hidden by the dowry."
"Sicilian","The boss said to the servant, when there isn't what you want, eat what there is."
"Sicilian","The bigger the chance, the less the security."
"Sicilian","The big bells have to ring, in order for the little bells to ring."
"Sicilian","The best of all worlds: A sunny Christmas and a log fire on Easter."
"Sicilian","The bed of the Dominicans, the table of the Capuccins, and the luxury of the Benedictines."
"Sicilian","The beauty of the play is to do deeds and speak little."
"Sicilian","The barking of dogs does not reach heaven."
"Sicilian","The bankrupt merchant is half rich."
"Sicilian","Syracuse is a lovely place, with five bucks you can eat, drink, and get by."
"Sicilian","The bands in Messina play from morning until night."
"Sicilian","She has a great marriage without a mother-in-law or a sister-in-law."
"Sicilian","The arm of the young and the head of the old."
"Sicilian","The ancient motto says: When you can eat the figs, prune the fig trees."
"Sicilian","That which is written, is meant to be read."
"Sicilian","That which is agreed upon is not deception."
"Sicilian","That grief is light which is capable of counsel."
"Sicilian","That fellow roasts his fish in the flames of a fire."
"Sicilian","Ten ounces to all, eleven ounces to some, and a full twelve to no one."
"Sicilian","Taking a bite of the bread restores your appetite."
"Sicilian","Take her by herself and take her with nothing."
"Sicilian","The bands of Palermo and the privileges of Messina."
"Sicilian","Prune cherry and fig trees mercilessly."
"Sicilian","Remain honorable and don't worry if you're poor."
"Sicilian","Remain continuously in the vegetable and flower garden."
"Sicilian","Religion will perish because of excessive comforts."
"Sicilian","Reins and a whip make a good horse."
"Sicilian","Raising children engenders love."
"Sicilian","Rain and the hoe make onions."
"Sicilian","Quickly, quickly because the wax is melting."
"Sicilian","Putting hope in a monk, is like trying to catch the wind in a net."
"Sicilian","Put up with your present condition to avoid a bad future."
"Sicilian","Sickness is awful, but a relapse is worse."
"Sicilian","Prune the vines on the January moon if you want to fill the casks."
"Sicilian","Rice, it goes down but does nothing for me."
"Sicilian","Privateer, sail while you have a good wind."
"Sicilian","Priests dressed in black bring bad tidings, in white they take you to the cemetery."
"Sicilian","Preparing for the holiday is neither enlightening nor lasting."
"Sicilian","Prepare the sickles in May, use the sickles in June, and in July carry the sickles to the tool shed."
"Sicilian","Prepare the fallow field well enough and you'll be free to go off and gather the hemp ties."
"Sicilian","Praise the sea but hang on to the land."
"Sicilian","Plow with the oxen and seed with the cows at their own pace."
"Sicilian","Plant vines as long as you live and seed as far as you see."
"Sicilian","Plain oil cures every pain."
"Sicilian","Put a heavy load on an old donkey."
"Sicilian","Scarcity sets the price."
"Sicilian","Pilate was neither saved nor damned."
"Sicilian","Set the sails according to the wind."
"Sicilian","Serve the Lord and you'll see what pain is."
"Sicilian","January chicks fill the hen house, August chicks fill the baskets."
"Sicilian","Sell high and give a fair measure."
"Sicilian","Love, beauty and money are three things that can't be hidden."
"Sicilian","Seed well and harvest better."
"Sicilian","Seed ground that has been fallow, not ground that has just yielded fruitfully."
"Sicilian","Seed after a bad year."
"Sicilian","Render the service paid for."
"Sicilian","Sea urchins, limpets, and crabs you spend a lot and eat nothing."
"Sicilian","Repentance washes away sin."
"Sicilian","Sausage from Mazzarino, c?lia from Caltagirone, and pasta from Vizzini."
"Sicilian","Sardines in January and vopa in March."
"Sicilian","Salt comes from the sea and every bad thing comes from the woman."
"Sicilian","Saints sleep three hours, merchants sleep five, ordinary people seven and the lazy sleep nine."
"Sicilian","Safeguard the flock that is grazing on the mountain."
"Sicilian","Roof tiles are positioned to face downwards so that husbands and wives can be left alone."
"Sicilian","Ring the bells for whoever eats snails and drinks water, because he's dead."
"Sicilian","Ride on the back of a mare, but on the shoulders of horses."
"Sicilian","Ricotta and honey, eat them often."
"Sicilian","Sickness is a visit by God."
"Sicilian","See Palermo and enjoy it, see Naples then die."
"Sicilian","If you close the door, the devil will turn his back on you."
"Sicilian","January hoeing fills the basket."
"Sicilian","If you don't want to attract attention, don't start something new."
"Sicilian","If you don't want it to be known, don't do it."
"Sicilian","If you don't want anyone to take your place, don't ever show that you're frightened."
"Sicilian","If you don't plant, you get nothing."
"Sicilian","If you don't like dogs, you don't like people."
"Sicilian","If you don't know by age twenty, don't do by age thrity, don't have by age forty, you will never know, never do, and never have."
"Sicilian","If you don't hope, you won't be crushed."
"Sicilian","If you don't have money, you're not worth listening to."
"Sicilian","If you engage in a business you don't understand, your money will fly away."
"Sicilian","If you continually harvest without fertilizing the land will soon be exhausted and you'll have bad years."
"Sicilian","If you give your goods without a pledge, you show little inventiveness."
"Sicilian","If they are roses they will blossom, if they are thorns, they will prick."
"Sicilian","If the young had the motivation and the old had the strength, there'd be nothing that couldn't be accomplished."
"Sicilian","Who serves well and quietly, expects a lot."
"Sicilian","Who sins and then makes amends, trusts in God."
"Sicilian","Who spares himself while young, will work until he's old."
"Sicilian","Who starts many things, finishes nothing."
"Sicilian","Who stays at the master and doesn't learn, is either a jackass or pretends to be one."
"Sicilian","Who stays vigilant, will win."
"Sicilian","Who suffers because of love, feels no pain."
"Sicilian","If you don't collect the sheep early, you get neither the sheep nor the wool."
"Sicilian","If you put seeds where there are rushes you won't gather toasties."
"Sicilian","If you want to die quickly, wash your head and go to sleep."
"Sicilian","If you want to be loved by all, first love God, then your mother and father."
"Sicilian","If you want to be happy, love the one who loves you, because it's a waste of time to love someone who doesn't love you."
"Sicilian","If you want bread go to Agrigento, if you want pasta go to Licata, ask for money from the people in Aci, oil and sumac from the Terminesi."
"Sicilian","If you want a faithful dog start rearing him when he is young."
"Sicilian","If you want a celebration provide the means."
"Sicilian","If you want a beautiful woman, hurry to Syracuse: if you want her ugly, run to Terranova, go to Rosolini if you want her lazy and to Spaccaforno if you're looking for one to try."
"Sicilian","If you urge the donkey on, you'll arrive late, if you let the donkey amble, you'll arrive early."
"Sicilian","If you still have money in the month of May, you'll have it the entire year."
"Sicilian","If you drink a belly full you'll regret it all day."
"Sicilian","If you see a Greek and a wolf, avoid the wolf and shoot the Greek."
"Sicilian","Who ventures forth, succeeds."
"Sicilian","If you prune in March you're either a jackass or crazy."
"Sicilian","If you prune in April you'll fill your barrels not with wine, but with water."
"Sicilian","If you marry you'll suffer in your youth, if you don't marry you'll suffer in your old age."
"Sicilian","If you leave the safe open even a saint will sin."
"Sicilian","If you invest a lot but don't maintain it, you won't even harvest enough to re-seed."
"Sicilian","If you have to have animals in your house, don't have either a dog or a cat with a red coat."
"Sicilian","If you have to get drunk, you must do it with good wine."
"Sicilian","If you have a business you have to smile at everyone."
"Sicilian","If you go fishing and catch nothing, go to the henhouse and get eggs."
"Sicilian","If you show a rich man kindness, you gain nothing, but when you wrong him he avenges himself instantly."
"Sicilian","Without jealousy, love would wither."
"Sicilian","Wine is as sweet as honey but it can be abused."
"Sicilian","Wine should not be watered."
"Sicilian","With a clear Sirocco and a dark North Wind, go to sea without concern."
"Sicilian","With a good farm, garden and vineyard, all your problems will be cured."
"Sicilian","With death you don't lose hope: damnation is called separation."
"Sicilian","With everything Messina has the port, but for beautiful Palermo it is always just an orchard."
"Sicilian","With friends make agreements, with relatives make contracts."
"Sicilian","With selling and buying there are neither friends nor cronies."
"Sicilian","With the hammer's blows the defects become known."
"Sicilian","Who takes cover under the branch, collects what rains and collects what falls."
"Sicilian","Who sells, goes down; who buys, goes up."
"Sicilian","Whoever waits for time to pass loses time."
"Sicilian","Wives from the mountains and husbands from the cities."
"Sicilian","Woe unto the patient whose doctors argue."
"Sicilian","Women always tend to the bad."
"Sicilian","Women and cloth should not be bought in the evening."
"Sicilian","Women can't keep secrets."
"Sicilian","Women, fire, and the sea are perilous for man."
"Sicilian","Wooden casks make good wine."
"Sicilian","Words are for reasoning."
"Sicilian","Wrongful acquisitions don't last long."
"Sicilian","With two bits worth of a donkey you can earn more than with a mule."
"Sicilian","Whoever falls in love with an old person laments their fortune."
"Sicilian","If you want to have a happy life, stay far away from your relatives."
"Sicilian","Who waits hoping in plans and dreams, loses time, and collects flies and troubles."
"Sicilian","Who walks gains, who sits withers."
"Sicilian","Who wants to chase two rabbits, will get neither one nor the other."
"Sicilian","Who wants to eat snails, will have to get his feet wet."
"Sicilian","Who wants to judge needs to listen to the parties."
"Sicilian","Whoever brings his wife to every feast will not be lacking for headaches."
"Sicilian","Whoever buys useless things will soon be selling his necessities."
"Sicilian","Whoever cultivates clay, harvests silk."
"Sicilian","Wine in moderation is a stomach tonic."
"Sicilian","Whoever exchanges some lard for some other lard, one or the other must be rancid."
"Sicilian","Whoever wants a good must should hoe the vineyard in August."
"Sicilian","Whoever goes on foot during April and May, goes on horseback the rest of the year."
"Sicilian","Whoever goes to Palermo and doesn't see Monreale, goes there a jackass and returns a fool."
"Sicilian","Whoever interferes between husband and wife is a big jackass."
"Sicilian","Whoever marries for love will always live in pain."
"Sicilian","Whoever rides into the flood, either does not own the animal or doesn't value it."
"Sicilian","Whoever seeds fava beans without using fertilizer, shouldn't count on having much to eat."
"Sicilian","Whoever sows alongside the road, tires the oxen and wastes seed."
"Sicilian","Whoever sows on hard ground, needs good wishes and luck."
"Sicilian","Whoever sows within the vineyard, neither reaps a crop nor harvests grapes."
"Sicilian","Who teaches another, acquires more knowledge."
"Sicilian","Whoever exchanges gets rid of the coarse and the bad."
"Sicilian","June rains consume the world."
"Sicilian","Latin hides the stupidity of the priest."
"Sicilian","Late marriages, premature orphans."
"Sicilian","Knowledge is no match for luck."
"Sicilian","Kiss him, kiss him, little mouth of honey: you're the hooker but I'm the wife."
"Sicilian","Kind master, give me hay for all of April."
"Sicilian","Keep your feet on the ground and you'll lessen the pain."
"Sicilian","Keep watch for the appearing mushroom."
"Sicilian","Keep up with the times, don't stay in the dark."
"Sicilian","Justice that's pending is injustice attending."
"Sicilian","It's pointless to fish if there's no bait on the hook."
"Sicilian","Justice and fire, keep them at arms length."
"Sicilian","Leave in the daylight, don't leave in the dark."
"Sicilian","Judge wine by its taste, and bread by its color."
"Sicilian","January's goat meat is so good it even spoils the goatherd."
"Sicilian","The bushes grow in order to cover defects."
"Sicilian","January commits the sin and May gets blamed."
"Sicilian","The ideal is a four year old dog, an eight year old horse, an eighteen year old woman and a twenty eight year old man."
"Sicilian","It's useless to tell the lame to run."
"Sicilian","It's useless to give advice opposing God."
"Sicilian","It's useless to change your state, if you don't have luck in your favor."
"Sicilian","If you want to eat freshly caught fish, you don't want to have a tight purse."
"Sicilian","Justice and health, woe to the one who seeks them."
"Sicilian","Love and arrogance don't go together."
"Sicilian","Love the one who loves you, answer the one who calls you."
"Sicilian","Love me, love my dog."
"Sicilian","Love is the rock of youth and the shoal of old age."
"Sicilian","Love is the more beautiful when it is a little irritated."
"Sicilian","Love is like a cucumber, it starts off sweet and ends up bitter."
"Sicilian","Love is bitter, but it comforts the heart."
"Sicilian","Love is apportioned, who brings it will have it brought."
"Sicilian","Love God with all your heart and ignore the gossip-mongers."
"Sicilian","Love entered and you didn't realize it: you wanted to drive it out but you couldn't."
"Sicilian","Laughter without reason, is either crazy or stupid."
"Sicilian","Love and jealousy always keep company."
"Sicilian","Learned doctors are stars on earth."
"Sicilian","Look at who I am and not who I was."
"Sicilian","Long service awaits rewards."
"Sicilian","Little and nothing are relatives."
"Sicilian","Listen to the old and you won't be mistaken."
"Sicilian","Like feathers, words are blown away by the wind."
"Sicilian","Let me deal with my troubles myself."
"Sicilian","Let God handle it, He's a venerable saint."
"Sicilian","Let a sleeping dog lie."
"Sicilian","Leave the hot fire and help the woman in labor."
"Sicilian","It's not polite to eat just the center of the cheese and just the crust of the bread."
"Sicilian","Love doesn't listen to advice."
"Sicilian","If your neighbor's house is afire, fetch water to save your own."
"Sicilian","In Polizzi you'll find water, fog, kites, priests with children, commissions and delegates."
"Sicilian","In old age your strength decreases and your appetite increases."
"Sicilian","In May the horse gets fat, but if he doesn't get fat it's better to ditch him."
"Sicilian","In July, store the grain under the bed."
"Sicilian","In January you slaughter the lambs in February you work the skins."
"Sicilian","In hard times priests are in great demand."
"Sicilian","In foreign countries money goes by the way."
"Sicilian","In fair weather, in calm waters and in peaceful travel, even a coachman knows how to sail."
"Sicilian","In August the lambs are slaughtered."
"Sicilian","It's tragic to have to uncover a recently covered haystack."
"Sicilian","Ill gotten gains don't last."
"Sicilian","In the olive grove, a wise man at the feet and a wild man at the head."
"Sicilian","If you've seeded before a heavy rain, one out of one hundred of your plants will be out of line, but if you wait and seed later, one out of one hundred will take."
"Sicilian","If you're not a King don't make new laws; leave the world the way you find it."
"Sicilian","If you'd be beloved, make yourself amiable."
"Sicilian","If you wish someone evil, give him a horse, and if you wish him more evil, give him two horses."
"Sicilian","If you want to stay full of good health, always eat eggs and drink wine."
"Sicilian","If you want to sell at a high price you'll earn little."
"Sicilian","If you want to live to be old you need to start early."
"Sicilian","If you want to know if someone has money, observe his beard and his boots."
"Sicilian","Love without pain is not to be found anywhere."
"Sicilian","In a long race the good horse prevails."
"Sicilian","It's a bad sign when the sick person tosses and turns in bed."
"Sicilian","It's insane to oppose when you can neither win nor compromise."
"Sicilian","It's healthier to wear out many boots and few bed sheets."
"Sicilian","It's fun to be a guest."
"Sicilian","It's dumb to put snow on the kitchen spit, the snow melts and the fire goes out."
"Sicilian","It's better to have ringworm than a farm and vineyard."
"Sicilian","It's better to have few pleasures than many troubles."
"Sicilian","It's better to cajole the beast than to scream at it."
"Sicilian","It's always good to have an old man at a little boy's side."
"Sicilian","It's a long way from the said to the done."
"Sicilian","In the countryside eat cardoon, because at the castle you'll eat pigeon."
"Sicilian","It's a good marriage when he's twenty eight and she's eighteen."
"Sicilian","In the head of the pig there's something to take and something to leave; in the head of the rabbit there's nothing to leave and nothing to take."
"Sicilian","It won't work to tell your feet: come."
"Sicilian","It takes both luck and good fortune just to fry eggs."
"Sicilian","It takes bales of hundredweight because a fire of straw lasts little."
"Sicilian","It is written in sacred scripture: where grass is growing you don't need fertilizer."
"Sicilian","Involuntary love is worthless."
"Sicilian","Inexperienced young men are better off not marrying: Stay away from women! you'll be better off."
"Sicilian","In youth we need to save for what old age will bring."
"Sicilian","In war, hunting, and love you suffer a thousand pains for one pleasure."
"Sicilian","In time you'll want what you had scorned."
"Sicilian","If you want to experience the pains of hell, spend winter in Messina and summer in Palermo."
"Sicilian","It's a great advantage to love someone in your neighborhood: you see each other often and you don't have to travel."
"Sicilian","When the dripping continues it succeeds in piercing the hardest stone."
"Sicilian","When you see a sheep's wool sky you know, if it doesn't rain today, it will rain in the morning."
"Sicilian","When the ox is at the slaughterhouse everyone comes running with their knives."
"Sicilian","When the olive tree blooms during April, olives are harvested with barrels, when it blossoms in June, they are harvested in handfuls."
"Sicilian","When the old man falls, don't laugh, the young have also fallen."
"Sicilian","When the moon is pale, it will rain; when it's red, it will be windy and when it's clear, it will be serene."
"Sicilian","When the husband is a hen and the wife is a cock, the house is in a jumble."
"Sicilian","When the hunting dog barks it's a signal that the prey is near."
"Sicilian","When the hunt is not successful, go find snails."
"Sicilian","When the fields are flooded you'll have hunger, when they're snow covered there'll be plenty to eat."
"Sicilian","When the pear is ripe it falls by itself."
"Sicilian","When the ear of corn hangs to the side the farmer watches it with comfort."
"Sicilian","When the poor man patches himself up, he seems newly dressed."
"Sicilian","When the crane passes, urge the oxen on."
"Sicilian","When the cost is high think about it, when it's low, buy a lot."
"Sicilian","When the cat's away the mice will play."
"Sicilian","When the cat washes its face, you know it's going to rain."
"Sicilian","When the cat hops around, bad weather is on the way."
"Sicilian","When sweethearts want each other, the parents must inevitably accede."
"Sicilian","When loves knocks, be sure to answer."
"Sicilian","When loves is willing, it finds a way."
"Sicilian","When it's seen, there's no need for proof."
"Sicilian","When the fever is gone, the thirst ends."
"Sicilian","When there's little meat, take the bone."
"Sicilian","The husband who lacks affection is like a house that lacks a roof."
"Sicilian","When you lose friends, you go down many steps."
"Sicilian","When you have, you are."
"Sicilian","When you have money you live happily, when you don't you lose your friends"
"Sicilian","When you have brains to go along with your wealth you can call yourself happy and content."
"Sicilian","When you go to steal a sheep and you're succeeding, take a big one because the small one will grow."
"Sicilian","When you fall behind, you eat dust."
"Sicilian","When you can't do what you want, do what you can."
"Sicilian","When things are being thrown away, buy them."
"Sicilian","When the partridge sings in the stone quarry bring the wood into the haystack."
"Sicilian","When there's love, mountains seem like plains."
"Sicilian","When in March sun and water are taking turns with water and sun, the mules end up doing the carrying."
"Sicilian","When there's a clear horizon in winter, there'll be the devil to pay."
"Sicilian","When there is poverty, loyalty is suspect."
"Sicilian","When there are lots of insects, look for a good grain year."
"Sicilian","When the weather changes, the beast sneezes."
"Sicilian","When the Sirocco blows in the winter, you can expect rain at any moment."
"Sicilian","When the sickness is old not even Hippocrates can help."
"Sicilian","When the screech-owl sings, you can try to go to work for someone else if you're working for a bad owner."
"Sicilian","When the rooster crows off the hour, don't hesitate to adjust the time."
"Sicilian","When the ripened ears are full and fall over, as if in sleep, the farmer awakens, that is to say, he begins the harvest."
"Sicilian","When they give you a piglet, run there quickly with a little cord."
"Sicilian","Use your time as best you can, keeping the hoe and oxen ready."
"Sicilian","We go forward in order to go backwards."
"Sicilian","Water, advice, and salt unasked for should not be given."
"Sicilian","Water does harm but wine makes you sing."
"Sicilian","Water does harm but wine comforts."
"Sicilian","Water and sun make work, water and wind make grain."
"Sicilian","Watch out for the unexpected mushroom."
"Sicilian","Walls don't have ears but they hear, they don't have mouths but they speak."
"Sicilian","Walk with your slippers until you can find your shoes."
"Sicilian","Wait for time and lose time."
"Sicilian","When it rains in the morning, take the plow and start sowing; when it rains between Vespers and nightfall, put on your boots."
"Sicilian","Use your time in May to stock up for winter."
"Sicilian","We learn by standing on the shoulders of the wise."
"Sicilian","Use the chicken for broth and the pullet for its meat."
"Sicilian","Use fertilizer to change the course of nature."
"Sicilian","Unspoken words cannot be noted."
"Sicilian","Unfortunate is the property that the owner doesn't oversee."
"Sicilian","Unexpected good fortune, gets more appreciation."
"Sicilian","Uncollected olives, left at random fill neither the saddle bag nor the little sack."
"Sicilian","True wisdom is born with white hair."
"Sicilian","True love burns within the heart, better than flax and straw."
"Sicilian","Tribulations and blessings, if you have them, keep them."
"Sicilian","Vegetable garden and mill, don't tell your neighbor how much they yield."
"Sicilian","When a rich man caresses a poor man, he's going to take advantage of him."
"Sicilian","When you see many dogs at a bone, it's best to make yourself scarce."
"Sicilian","When God wants to help you, he comes all the way to your house."
"Sicilian","When February is rainy, it's very profitable."
"Sicilian","When fava beans are flowering, apply water in torrents."
"Sicilian","When everything is going smoothly, a man tends to get cocky."
"Sicilian","When death is near, neither doctors nor medicine help."
"Sicilian","When cranes migrate, bad weather can't be far off."
"Sicilian","When birds aren't making a mess it's a sign that it's been a bad year."
"Sicilian","When April is rainy, and May is windy, the year will be fruitful."
"Sicilian","We have but one soul to lose."
"Sicilian","When a rich man comes to bad times, he doesn't know what to do."
"Sicilian","We keep an eye on the scorpion and the serpent, but we do not watch out for the millipede."
"Sicilian","When a poor man gets lucky, nothing can contain him."
"Sicilian","Whatever you have to do, do it quickly."
"Sicilian","What the eyes don't see, the heart doesn't believe."
"Sicilian","What is given by God, can't be lacking."
"Sicilian","What has the rooster of Sciacca been reduced to, to be pecked by the hen."
"Sicilian","What good is faith if you don't live by it."
"Sicilian","Weapons are of no use to the fearful."
"Sicilian","Wealth and holiness, believe only half, if you believe less, you'll do better."
"Sicilian","We're many rivers from the same water."
"Sicilian","When in Rome, do as the Romans."
"Sicilian","When an old man falls in love he is teased by everyone."
"Sicilian","Who has many comforts and does not use them, won't find a confessor who will grant him absolution."
"Sicilian","When you remove the pack-saddle the sores become visible."
"Sicilian","Who lives foolishly as a youth, wails in old age."
"Sicilian","Who likes you well will come to your house."
"Sicilian","Who leaves the old way for the new, the trouble not looked for, will be found there."
"Sicilian","Who is late and not missed, mustn't call himself missing."
"Sicilian","Who is defeated by words is not always convinced by the truth."
"Sicilian","Who is blind, dumb and deaf will live a peaceful life of a hundred years."
"Sicilian","Who insists on running up a slope, is confused and crazy."
"Sicilian","Who hopes for alms from the priests, winds up at the insane asylum."
"Sicilian","Who loses his honor loses a lot, who loses his faith, loses everything."
"Sicilian","Who has money, spouts wisdom."
"Sicilian","Who loses honor won't ever find it."
"Sicilian","Who has lived a good life has a good death."
"Sicilian","Who has convenience and doesn't seize it, tie him to a stall and give him straw."
"Sicilian","Who has cold hands is in love, who has warm hands is loved."
"Sicilian","Who has a priest at home, has plenty of food."
"Sicilian","Who got up, lost his place, who sat down, found it."
"Sicilian","Who goes to the fair without money, goes with one problem and returns with three."
"Sicilian","Who goes out in the morning finds a carlin."
"Sicilian","Who goes hunting without dogs, comes home without rabbits."
"Sicilian","Who gets married will be happy for a day, who butchers a pig will be happy for a year."
"Sicilian","Who has never had good sense, and by age thirty still doesn't, certainly will never have it after that."
"Sicilian","Who pounds the water in the mortar, will get wet with the drops and will end up tired."
"Sicilian","Wrongful gains are quickly consumed."
"Sicilian","Dress up a country bumpkin and he looks like a baron."
"Sicilian","Who seizes too much with his own hand, will have everything slip away and will hold nothing."
"Sicilian","Who seeks, finds; who perseveres, wins."
"Sicilian","Who seeks that which he must not, finds that which he wants not."
"Sicilian","Who runs more, lacks walking."
"Sicilian","Who robs commits a sin, who is robbed commits a hundred."
"Sicilian","Who rids himself of his own freedom, always finds himself with worry and pain."
"Sicilian","Who resolves problems, doesn't die."
"Sicilian","Who looks for a quarrel, finds a quarrel."
"Sicilian","Who practices with the lame will be able to limp within a year."
"Sicilian","Who fails to show restraint in their youth, will be miserable in their old age."
"Sicilian","Who poorly supports himself, soon falls."
"Sicilian","Who pays in advance eats stinking fish."
"Sicilian","Who openly admires, will not buy."
"Sicilian","Who makes the hundred and not the one, loses the hundred because of that one."
"Sicilian","Who makes himself a sheep, will be eaten by the wolf."
"Sicilian","Who makes excuses without being accused, shows his guilt."
"Sicilian","Who makes baskets, makes some ugly and some beautiful."
"Sicilian","Who loves with his heart sees from a distance."
"Sicilian","Who loves God with all his heart, lives happy and dies happy."
"Sicilian","Who preaches to the deaf, wastes the sermon."
"Sicilian","When you're travelling, don't speak poorly of your neighbor."
"Sicilian","While there's nothing to do in April, let out the herd to pasture with all the sheep."
"Sicilian","Where you're not known, you're judged by your appearance."
"Sicilian","Where there's smoke, there's fire."
"Sicilian","Where there's a senior the minor yields, said the chick in the cage."
"Sicilian","Where there is no love there is no charity."
"Sicilian","Where there are monks and priests, there is adultery and beatings."
"Sicilian","Where the hen goes, the chicks follow."
"Sicilian","Where the gold jingles more, I run more quickly."
"Sicilian","Where many roosters are crowing, it's not because it's daylight."
"Sicilian","Who gets married to a thin woman will know bitterness and strife, who marries a plump woman will be contented at the table and sleeping chamber."
"Sicilian","When your neighbor burns down, your hurt is near."
"Sicilian","White wine strengthens the hip."
"Sicilian","When you're sick, tell everyone."
"Sicilian","When you're invited, eat heartily, because if they like you they'll laugh, and if they don't like you they'll feel the pangs of death."
"Sicilian","When you're enjoying prosperity, be wary of adversity."
"Sicilian","When you work with anxiety during the day, you'll sit up at night with your thoughts."
"Sicilian","When you want to serve your friend, you can't worry about your belongings."
"Sicilian","When you uproot vines as you plant vines, you'll never harvest the grapes."
"Sicilian","When you try to walk the straight and narrow you get pebbles in your shoes."
"Sicilian","When you think you have the wind at your back, that's when you'll be disappointed."
"Sicilian","When you see that it's going astray, take the mule by the reins."
"Sicilian","Where malice has taken root, friendship can never be formed."
"Sicilian","Who doesn't intend to pay, signs any contract."
"Sicilian","Too much spoils and too little is not enough."
"Sicilian","Who fails to listen to his elders, will hang his knapsack in the wrong place."
"Sicilian","Who eats without drinking, will never feel full."
"Sicilian","Who drives donkeys and believes women, will never see the face of paradise."
"Sicilian","Who drinks at night, buys himself death, who drinks in bed, buys himself a coffin."
"Sicilian","Who dresses in the clothing of others, will soon undress."
"Sicilian","Who doesn't want to when he can, can't when he wants to."
"Sicilian","Who doesn't want to stay with friends, is either a cop, a cuckold, or a spy."
"Sicilian","Who doesn't want a fire, should remove the wood."
"Sicilian","While we are the Pope we'll pontificate; who knows if we'll be Pope another time."
"Sicilian","Who doesn't listen to reason, can't do things with reason."
"Sicilian","While you still have bread, troubles are not troubles, true troubles are without bread."
"Sicilian","Who doesn't approach with disbelief, won't see the face of paradise."
"Sicilian","Who chooses a wife based on the dowry, will have a painful life."
"Sicilian","Who carries on his back is thrown from the saddle."
"Sicilian","Who can't help, listens in vain."
"Sicilian","Who can't bite should not bare his teeth"
"Sicilian","Who builds on sand, the fall is near."
"Sicilian","Who bleeds, earns."
"Sicilian","Who arrives at the mill first, grinds."
"Sicilian","Who approaches women penniless will be told: get lost."
"Sicilian","Who gets angry without reason, makes peace without satisfaction."
"Sicilian","Who doesn't make a knot at the end of the thread, loses the stitch more than once."
"Sicilian","The man who marries gives up liberty and accepts responsibility and it's said: The poor guy, who would have thought it."
"Sicilian","Trapani, red coral, Monte San Giuliano, beautiful children."
"Sicilian","The more you know the less you believe."
"Sicilian","The more you have, the more you want."
"Sicilian","The monk feasts and the convent pays."
"Sicilian","The meat from the castrated, from wherever you take it you trick yourself."
"Sicilian","The mature fruit is cooked in August and dished out in September."
"Sicilian","The master is the master and the owner is the headmaster."
"Sicilian","The man without money seems half sick."
"Sicilian","The man without a wife, has nothing good."
"Sicilian","The mother bears the daughter and the neighbor marries her off."
"Sicilian","The man with a beautiful wife is always singing, the one with little money is always counting."
"Sicilian","The mother of a fool is always pregnant."
"Sicilian","The man who loses his wife for good cause cannot be called cuckold."
"Sicilian","The man who chases mules and believes women will never get to Heaven."
"Sicilian","The man makes the house and not the dowry."
"Sicilian","The man brings the good, but the woman maintains it."
"Sicilian","The love of a stranger is like water in a basket."
"Sicilian","The love of a soldier doesn't last long; when the drum rolls; Good bye, dear lady."
"Sicilian","The longer you live the more you suffer."
"Sicilian","The living who is absent is like a dead man."
"Sicilian","The lie of the millionaire is more believable than truth from a the beggar."
"Sicilian","The man with a fixed income lives with anxiety and suffers as the costs of goods fluctuate."
"Sicilian","The one who does the dividing has the best portion."
"Sicilian","The poor is not believed."
"Sicilian","The poor didn't have but gave to charity."
"Sicilian","The poor are the needy."
"Sicilian","The poor and wretched man has long days."
"Sicilian","The pigeon brings the makings and the chick makes the nest."
"Sicilian","The pig says: give to me and I'll give to you, don't tell me how long it's taking."
"Sicilian","The peasant is like the monk in many ways."
"Sicilian","The pardon arrives after the man was hung."
"Sicilian","The ox which eats hay, works the entire day."
"Sicilian","The most important thing you have to do is to save your soul."
"Sicilian","The one who has a fever thinks that honey is bitter."
"Sicilian","The latecomer is valued as nothing."
"Sicilian","The olive grove of your grandfather, the cherry trees of your father, and your grape vines."
"Sicilian","The old woman doesn't want fun, she wants bread, wine, and fire."
"Sicilian","The old nightingale sings better."
"Sicilian","The old never lack for a story when they're standing in the sun or in front of a warm fireplace."
"Sicilian","The old have to be respected."
"Sicilian","The oil merchant handles gold and diamonds; the grain merchant does business with silver, but the wine merchant is a poor man."
"Sicilian","The offender writes in dust, the offended writes in marble."
"Sicilian","The nightime March snow disappears by day."
"Sicilian","The new moon of March rules for six months."
"Sicilian","The one who loses his faith will never be content."
"Sicilian","The dog that's late is bringing the catch."
"Sicilian","The fish was so fresh that it was being cooked while its tail was still in the sea."
"Sicilian","The first seeding on the feast of All Saints and the last on the feast of Saint Andrew."
"Sicilian","The female of the species is more deadly than the male."
"Sicilian","The fellow roasts his fish in the flames of a fire."
"Sicilian","The eye of the Syracusan makes the snakes come out of their pits."
"Sicilian","The expense is more than the merchandise."
"Sicilian","The eggs of the brood need to be an odd number."
"Sicilian","The earth says: Give to me and I'll give to you."
"Sicilian","The early bird catches the worm."
"Sicilian","The less things change, the more they remain the same."
"Sicilian","The door is always open to the bearer of gifts."
"Sicilian","The gallows is not made for the rich, but for the head of the peasant."
"Sicilian","The dog bites the bedraggled."
"Sicilian","The devil laughs when the poor donates to the rich."
"Sicilian","The devil knows a lot because he's old."
"Sicilian","The creditor gets a pledge from the good payer."
"Sicilian","The cowherd who has fodder has bread, and if he doesn't have fodder then he ends up without oxen and without bread."
"Sicilian","The constancy of women is like rain in July."
"Sicilian","The cockroach inside the oakum, the more it tries to free itself, the more it's caught."
"Sicilian","The Church never gives anything away."
"Sicilian","The choice oil is from the surface, the best wine is from the middle, and the best honey is from the bottom."
"Sicilian","The drunkard always tells the truth."
"Sicilian","The hoer hoes in his own vineyard."
"Sicilian","The prior said to the abbess: without money no Mass will be sung."
"Sicilian","The lame jackass enjoys the journey."
"Sicilian","The justice of God is better than the justice of the world."
"Sicilian","The June bee portends lots of honey."
"Sicilian","The January moon brightens like a clear day."
"Sicilian","The jackass that is late returns loaded."
"Sicilian","The husbands belong to the wives and hookers are for the wild beast."
"Sicilian","The horse chained to the feeding trough and the mare in the thicket."
"Sicilian","The horns of the sister are horns of gold; the horns of the wife are true horns."
"Sicilian","The fourth fever kills the old and cures the young."
"Sicilian","The honorable man lives in difficulty."
"Sicilian","The fresh air from the square is better than a draft from a crack."
"Sicilian","The healthy can't pretend to be sick nor can the sick pretend to be healthy."
"Sicilian","The haughty broad bean flowers and climbs but produces little fruit."
"Sicilian","The hat does not make the gentleman nor the cap a lout."
"Sicilian","The grill said to the frying pan: I want big fishes not minnows."
"Sicilian","The good that you scoff at and ignore, you'll recognize when you lose it."
"Sicilian","The good that you fail to do is gone forever."
"Sicilian","The good that follows evil is more appreciated."
"Sicilian","The good sailor is proven in a storm."
"Sicilian","The gluttony of the monk and the appetite of the priest."
"Sicilian","The laying hen says: give me feed to fill my beak and I'll give you eggs."
"Sicilian","The horns are dry but they keep the house in plenty."
"Sicilian","There is no knowledge without experience."
"Sicilian","There's no plan that can handle the vagaries of March."
"Sicilian","There's no defense against the wrath of God."
"Sicilian","There's honor among thieves."
"Sicilian","There's always time for Mass."
"Sicilian","There's always room for a tasty treat."
"Sicilian","There isn't a Pentecost without a Sirocco nor a woman without a bow."
"Sicilian","There isn't a Holy Week without the fifty days, nor the fifty days without the Sirocco."
"Sicilian","There is rarely gain without deception."
"Sicilian","There is no victory without sacrifice."
"Sicilian","The young cock said to the young chicken: the whole world is like our home."
"Sicilian","There is no master who can fix the ravages of old age."
"Sicilian","Think back, old trunk, to when you were a sprout."
"Sicilian","There is nary a feast or a party without a monk or a priest."
"Sicilian","There is always the calm sea before the storm."
"Sicilian","There are two powers to contend with, those with a lot and those with nothing."
"Sicilian","There are three who have to give an accounting to God; the judges, the priests, and the godparents."
"Sicilian","There are three tasty morsels: figs, peaches, and melons."
"Sicilian","There are some with thirty, some with thirty-one, with twenty-eight there is but one."
"Sicilian","There are four things to which you should not lend credence: love of women, the charity of friars, sun in the winter, and clouds in the summer."
"Sicilian","There are a hundred owners besides you until the wheat is harvested."
"Sicilian","The poverty of the gentleman is better than the money of the poor man."
"Sicilian","There is no table without wine nor sermon without Augustine."
"Sicilian","To be rich with bees and mares, is to be rich and have nothing."
"Sicilian","The buyer first disparages."
"Sicilian","Too much rain makes the green grain fall over."
"Sicilian","Too compassionate the doctor, too inadequate the treatment."
"Sicilian","Today to me, tomorrow to you, we're all in it together."
"Sicilian","To ward off the boredom of life, eat snails in May and fish in August."
"Sicilian","To recognize a real friend, you have to together have eaten three bushels of salt."
"Sicilian","To lengthen thy life, lessen thy meals."
"Sicilian","To have security, plan ahead."
"Sicilian","To get the best dowry, marry the poor man's first daughter but the rich man's last daughter."
"Sicilian","There's nothing fixed under the sky and the moon."
"Sicilian","To be worth as much as the H in the ABCs."
"Sicilian","Things for children, apple, almonds and hazel nuts."
"Sicilian","To appear and not to be is like weaving and not making cloth."
"Sicilian","Timely rain cheers my soul; water and sun during seeding, inspires hope; the rains of April and May are late at night; then the good mornings, will be the wealth of the houses."
"Sicilian","Time marches on."
"Sicilian","Tie the donkey where the owner wants, and let the wolf come to devour him."
"Sicilian","Tie the burden securely and go off singing."
"Sicilian","Ticks and money are difficult to pluck out."
"Sicilian","Throw January cabbages in the garbage."
"Sicilian","Three things make a man rich: Earning and not spending, promising and not doing, buying and not selling."
"Sicilian","Though trouble be lame, it will arrive."
"Sicilian","The yawn doesn't lie: it wants you to eat or sleep."
"Sicilian","To cure a cold you need the warmth of a pigeon's nest."
"Sicilian","The rich man has little need."
"Sicilian","The suffering patient knows more than the expert doctor."
"Sicilian","The soul goes to God, the body to the earth, and belongings to those to whom they should go."
"Sicilian","The sick bed makes the doctor."
"Sicilian","The Sicilian horse: short and dwarf."
"Sicilian","The short donkey doesn't carry on his back."
"Sicilian","The service is rendered, the goods awaited."
"Sicilian","The September moon governs seven moons."
"Sicilian","The scales tip where the weight is."
"Sicilian","The satiated don't believe the hungry."
"Sicilian","The young man plays the flute, the middle aged man plays the harpsichord, the old man plays the organ."
"Sicilian","The richer you are, the more troubles you have."
"Sicilian","The thief who can't steal anymore has become a Christian."
"Sicilian","The rich man breaks through the mesh and escapes, the afflicted man remains in the net and is caught."
"Sicilian","The rich have no pain."
"Sicilian","The rich do as they want, the poor do as they can."
"Sicilian","The rejected stone will become the cornerstone of the wall."
"Sicilian","The real cost for both a neat house and a well kept vineyard is incalculable."
"Sicilian","The quince is for fiancees who are fighting and the azarole for good people."
"Sicilian","The pursued runs on four feet, the pursuer on two."
"Sicilian","The promises of love and the smoke of a chimney, washed by water and blown away by the wind."
"Sicilian","Translators, traitors."
"Sicilian","The rose that's not considered, has been smelled or picked or defoliated."
"Sicilian","The war is lost for too much advice."
"Sicilian","The worm grazes where it's born."
"Sicilian","The world is a wheel, there are some at the top and some who go to the bottom."
"Sicilian","The worker expects to be paid."
"Sicilian","The woman without a husband doesn't have a friend."
"Sicilian","The woman like the hen, gets lost if she walks too far."
"Sicilian","The winner is looked upon as the stronger."
"Sicilian","The wild pear has blossomed: the kid goat no longer suffers."
"Sicilian","The white head often lacks good sense."
"Sicilian","The weight of years is the heaviest load."
"Sicilian","The summer that yields lots of pumpkins and horse radish doesn't fill the larder."
"Sicilian","The weak who opposes the strong, is like the jug that collides with the wall."
"Sicilian","The testimony of one eyewitness is worth more than the hearsay of a hundred."
"Sicilian","The vineyard along the coast costs dearly."
"Sicilian","The vine always says to his uncle Frank: Make me poor and I'll make you rich."
"Sicilian","The unscrupulous steal everything."
"Sicilian","The unmarried don't know about labor pains."
"Sicilian","The turtle is not afraid of hail stones."
"Sicilian","The tree that's cut down is half taken."
"Sicilian","The tree in the middle of the road is shaken by everyone."
"Sicilian","The tongue is the mirror of the stomach."
"Sicilian","The time for pressing is while the iron is hot."
"Sicilian","The priest covers the chalice and we must cover each other."
"Sicilian","The weaker the patient is, the sooner the sickness will end."
"Sicilian","Don't confide secrets to your wife, don't rent if your house has a pergola, don't have cops as a godfathers."
"Sicilian","Do you want to make the mute speak? Get rid of his troubles."
"Sicilian","Don't join in the celebration or holiday if you feel disgruntled."
"Sicilian","Don't have the appetite of Miss Julia who, when she had meat, wanted chick peas."
"Sicilian","Don't have anything to do with the cavalier who has fallen into poverty."
"Sicilian","Don't harvest grass that you don't recognize."
"Sicilian","Don't go to the doctor for every malady, nor to the lawyer for every disagreement, nor to the fountain for every thirst."
"Sicilian","Don't give away what you need for yourself."
"Sicilian","Don't fight with someone who has nothing to lose."
"Sicilian","Don't fetch water in a basket."
"Sicilian","Don't kneel in front of a saint who doesn't perspire."
"Sicilian","Don't confront water and fire."
"Sicilian","Don't leave the small quantity to get the big quantity because you might lose the one as well as the other."
"Sicilian","Don't compromise your beliefs for money."
"Sicilian","Don't celebrate promises, and don't fear threats."
"Sicilian","Don't buy houses near convents nor dwellings near abbeys."
"Sicilian","Don't become a sheep unless you want to be a wolf's meal."
"Sicilian","Don't be foolish! because foolishness hits the mark and cursing doesn't."
"Sicilian","Don't be foolish and awe struck, because foolishness is telling but cursing doesn't hit home."
"Sicilian","Dogs that bark, protect you."
"Sicilian","Dogs bark and oxen graze."
"Sicilian","God plays seriously, but He's a merciful father."
"Sicilian","Don't despise a man under a cape nor a woman in tatters."
"Sicilian","Don't pay a single gold coin for the sorrell, but when he's good, be ready to spend a fortune."
"Sicilian","Don't sleep on the ground during those months that are spelled with an r."
"Sicilian","Don't say, don't go, to running dogs."
"Sicilian","Don't retest the tested because the more you test it, the worse it will appear."
"Sicilian","Don't put yourself on a par with your betters."
"Sicilian","Don't put the cart before the horse."
"Sicilian","Don't put the bait near the fire."
"Sicilian","Don't push yourself forward if you don't have the heart."
"Sicilian","Don't prod the donkey while you're getting on."
"Sicilian","Don't preach, neither at home nor abroad."
"Sicilian","Don't kiss blacksmith's daughter."
"Sicilian","Don't plow during September and don't seed during October."
"Sicilian","Do you want to know the best play? Do good and speak little."
"Sicilian","Don't pass judgement on a work of art if you don't know how to create it."
"Sicilian","Don't make promises to the rich nor withhold from the poor."
"Sicilian","Don't make friends with monks and soldiers."
"Sicilian","Don't maintain a friendship with cops because you'll lose your wine and your cigars."
"Sicilian","Don't love the one who loves you, it's tyranny."
"Sicilian","Don't look for what you can't find."
"Sicilian","Don't let yourself get far away from your jackasses, women, and oxen."
"Sicilian","Don't let the chicken into the hen house in January."
"Sicilian","Don't lend out something that you're going to soon need."
"Sicilian","Don't praise the daylight before it is evening."
"Sicilian","Clear pacts, long friendship."
"Sicilian","Doctors learn on their patients."
"Sicilian","Corruptly acquired goods are not praised by the third heirs."
"Sicilian","Cooked pumpkin stays hot for a long time."
"Sicilian","Cook in June and July, dish it out in August and September."
"Sicilian","Congeniality makes beauty and not beauty love."
"Sicilian","Confessions without contrition, and prayers without intentions are time lost."
"Sicilian","Confession without contrition serves no purpose."
"Sicilian","Concern is the beginning of wealth."
"Sicilian","Completing a transaction with money borrowed at usury is a bad purchase."
"Sicilian","Cover a dog bite with fur."
"Sicilian","Collect promptly, pay slowly; who knows, in case of an accident, you'll pay nothing."
"Sicilian","Crooked wood is straightened with fire."
"Sicilian","Choose old wine and new oil."
"Sicilian","Choose her for her beauty and even choose her without a dowry because from her beauty you'll get pleasure."
"Sicilian","Choose bread with eyes, cheese without eyes and wine that makes your eyes pop."
"Sicilian","Choose an old doctor and a new pharmacist."
"Sicilian","Children and the deaf are the punishment of God."
"Sicilian","Chilblain passes with the flowers of May."
"Sicilian","Chiaramonte, a mountain of gold, every woman is a treasure."
"Sicilian","Chestnut horses and surly men can't even cover expenses."
"Sicilian","Cheese, pears and bread, is not the food of peasants."
"Sicilian","Come out of it standing on all four."
"Sicilian","Death respects neither young nor old, neither poor nor rich."
"Sicilian","Do you want to experience real thirst? Then try eating bitter cardoons and roasted fava beans."
"Sicilian","Do what you think is best."
"Sicilian","Do what you have to do and don't watch what others do."
"Sicilian","Do nothing and nothing will be known."
"Sicilian","Do good and forget it, do bad and think about it."
"Sicilian","Do as I say and not as I do."
"Sicilian","Do a good job of rooting out the turf and you'll prosper enough to enjoy focaccia."
"Sicilian","Dig the hoe in well in the vineyard and pull out the bad growth and the weed."
"Sicilian","Delicious things satiate little."
"Sicilian","Courage wins over sickness."
"Sicilian","Death will cure all pain."
"Sicilian","Don't tell your friend everything that you know; remember that one day you may have him for an enemy."
"Sicilian","Death finds everyone and the earth renews itself."
"Sicilian","Death and bad luck, you take them with you wherever you go."
"Sicilian","Day doesn't come without night following."
"Sicilian","Daughter of a cat, if she doesn't bite she scratches."
"Sicilian","Dark ground gives good bread; white ground is quickly tired."
"Sicilian","Curses: like chaff, who throws them, catches them."
"Sicilian","Cursed is the home where the hen does the crowing."
"Sicilian","Cure catarrh with wine."
"Sicilian","Crowd around for the getting, move out of the way when it's time to pay."
"Sicilian","December takes but June repays you."
"Sicilian","Fleeing is shameful but it preserves life."
"Sicilian","Don't spare expense on the wheat and the flax."
"Sicilian","For women the highest state is the married state."
"Sicilian","For the very best, drink milk from the goat, ricotta from the sheep and cheese from the cow."
"Sicilian","For the man a great sweat, for the woman a great physical pain."
"Sicilian","For tender almonds go to Aragona, to see beautiful young girls go to Favara."
"Sicilian","For sulphur, wheat, wine, and wool, come to the towns of Sicily."
"Sicilian","For a taste treat, try tuna roe and thorny cardoons."
"Sicilian","For a cow and a calf you need a man and a stable boy."
"Sicilian","Flowers in May and fruiting in June."
"Sicilian","Forget your troubles at the dining table."
"Sicilian","Flies can't fly into a closed mouth."
"Sicilian","Freedom and health, who has them is rich and doesn't know it."
"Sicilian","First harvest honey and wax during the day, then dance and play in the open during the evening."
"Sicilian","Finish what your start."
"Sicilian","Fever sustains the sick."
"Sicilian","February may be short but it's the worst month."
"Sicilian","Far from the eye far from the heart."
"Sicilian","Fake gold and papier mache cost little and look like a lot."
"Sicilian","Faith is salvation, not the wood of a ship."
"Sicilian","Eyes that you have made cry, cry; so it's no wonder if they tear."
"Sicilian","Experience is the best teacher."
"Sicilian","Flies don't get near a boiling pot."
"Sicilian","Give monks a wide berth, and as for priests just attend Mass."
"Sicilian","Drink coffee while it's hot enough to make you swear but let the chocolate cool."
"Sicilian","God made things straight, the devil came and twisted them."
"Sicilian","God has dominion over your possessions and your life."
"Sicilian","God gives cookies to those without teeth."
"Sicilian","God closes a door and opens a portico."
"Sicilian","God arranges luck."
"Sicilian","God allows but doesn't micromanage."
"Sicilian","God afflicts, but does not abandon."
"Sicilian","Go to Catania for beautiful silk jackets."
"Sicilian","Force of arms is useless against death."
"Sicilian","Giving promptly is like giving twice."
"Sicilian","Everyone thinks of his own gain, and plays in this way to deceive his companion."
"Sicilian","Give an apple to the little ones, a book to the old."
"Sicilian","Get your ox from a young cow and your horse from an old mare."
"Sicilian","Get a Christian doctor and a pagan lawyer."
"Sicilian","From twenty to thirty, neither pulling nor pushing, from thirty on up a woman is of no further use."
"Sicilian","From the work you know the master."
"Sicilian","From the woods a beautiful pheasant, from the sea a beautiful moray eel, from the river a den eel, from the cage a beautiful chicken."
"Sicilian","From the frying pan into the fire."
"Sicilian","From September to August drink the old wine and leave the must to age."
"Sicilian","Freedom is a plateful of hard crusts."
"Sicilian","Go early to the garden and the mill."
"Sicilian","During an epidemic doctors are happy."
"Sicilian","Eat as much beef as you can."
"Sicilian","Easy come, easy go."
"Sicilian","Earnings make weariness pass."
"Sicilian","Earnings from usury don't last long."
"Sicilian","Earnings far away get spent along the way."
"Sicilian","Earnings are of little use if one doesn't know how to save."
"Sicilian","Earning encourages diligence."
"Sicilian","Each wrinkle is an ounce of wisdom."
"Sicilian","During the winter eat long fishes, during the summer eat short fishes."
"Sicilian","Everything goes down the slope and everyone is inclined to the worst."
"Sicilian","During April rainfalls the pig gets butchered, the oxen gets fattened and the sheep laughs."
"Sicilian","Eat to live, and not live to eat."
"Sicilian","Dry your feet and warm your head, and don't worry about the rest."
"Sicilian","Who serves God, fears nothing."
"Sicilian","Dress up once a year, and dress up in cloth."
"Sicilian","Donkeys and women, beat them with a stick, to keep them at task."
"Sicilian","Don't try to make yourself a land baron at the turn of the river."
"Sicilian","Don't trust your enemy's advice."
"Sicilian","Don't trust old people and strangers."
"Sicilian","Don't trust a woman who laughs."
"Sicilian","Capacious as the sleeve of a monk and patient as the priest with his arms across his chest."
"Sicilian","During sickness, you recognize the value of good health."
"Sicilian","Every door has its own hinges."
"Sicilian","Don't take advice from your enemy."
"Sicilian","Everyone runs to cut wood from the fallen tree."
"Sicilian","Everyone knows that you mustn't praise a good wine, a good horse and a good wife."
"Sicilian","Everyone has his own troubles, some fewer, some more."
"Sicilian","Every year after fifty brings ten ailments."
"Sicilian","Every wood has its own smoke."
"Sicilian","Every promise is a debt and is owed, blessed is he who keeps his word."
"Sicilian","Every new broom makes noise."
"Sicilian","Every little love captured as a playful spark becomes a great flame."
"Sicilian","Eat little and you'll live, speak little and you'll get it right, spend little and you'll become rich."
"Sicilian","Every good thing comes from God."
"Sicilian","Eat meat and fish and live longer."
"Sicilian","Every dog barks at a poor man."
"Sicilian","Every beauty has some fault and every plain jane some grace."
"Sicilian","Even a hundred people can't undress a nude."
"Sicilian","Empty stalks from the Sirocco and full spikes of wheat with the North Wind."
"Sicilian","Eating makes crumbs."
"Sicilian","Eat yesterday's bread and last year's wine."
"Sicilian","Eat with gusto but drink in moderation."
"Sicilian","Eat warm and drink cold."
"Sicilian","Eat to please thyself, but dress to please others."
"Sicilian","Everyone wants to go to heaven; the desire is there but the fortitude is not."
"Sicilian","Every impediment is a benefit."
"Sicilian","A skinny pig is better than a fat chicken."
"Sicilian","Agree, or suffer the consequences."
"Sicilian","A trusted friend is a priceless treasure."
"Sicilian","A tree that doesn't flower in April, won't flower at all."
"Sicilian","A strong fire is easily put out."
"Sicilian","A stone that gathers no moss will be washed away by the river."
"Sicilian","A stitch in time saves nine."
"Sicilian","A spirited horse, a compliant; an aggressive man, a compliant horse."
"Sicilian","A son who is a priest is the wealth of a house."
"Sicilian","A snowy year, means a good year for grain."
"Sicilian","A vain woman is not worth a nickel."
"Sicilian","A small indignity can destroy a great love."
"Sicilian","A wealthy man is a pensive man."
"Sicilian","A silent woman is a good woman."
"Sicilian","A sick person can eat a fig that's ringed with a crown; the burgisotta fig is a treat for the girl."
"Sicilian","A sheep's wool sky means wind's to follow, either a Levant or a West wind or a Sirocco."
"Sicilian","A self confident woman will soon be married."
"Sicilian","A secretive person is up to some mischief."
"Sicilian","A rock offered by a friend is like an apple."
"Sicilian","A rich man is a learned man, a very rich man is astute."
"Sicilian","A red sky means either water or wind; if it doesn't rain, it will be fair weather."
"Sicilian","A raised salary has been earned by service."
"Sicilian","A smart man doesn't give his wife a lot of freedom."
"Sicilian","A woman who is young and beautiful is never poor."
"Sicilian","Cavaliers, priests, and dangerous places, speak nicely about them but keep your distance."
"Sicilian","After Easter, there are no more prayers and no more lettuce."
"Sicilian","Act aggressive and you will be feared."
"Sicilian","Acquire virtue while you're young."
"Sicilian","Aching bones will never kill you."
"Sicilian","Accumulation of riches brings wisdom."
"Sicilian","A youngster is never poor."
"Sicilian","A year of snow, bodes a good year for olives."
"Sicilian","A wounded head can be treated and heals, but a wounded heart never heals."
"Sicilian","A useless watch dog barks but stays far away."
"Sicilian","A woman who laughs at you has said yes."
"Sicilian","A piece of meat with eyes."
"Sicilian","A woman who hugs and squeezes you has deceived you or is seeking to deceive you."
"Sicilian","A woman who dresses up and puts on makeup is either in love or a clean whore."
"Sicilian","A woman who counsels you either puts you in a skirt or a bridle."
"Sicilian","A woman of thirty is not tempted by the devil."
"Sicilian","A woman is like a cat: the more you pet her the better she feels."
"Sicilian","A woman in her thirties, throw her in the sea."
"Sicilian","A woman and the wind change every moment."
"Sicilian","A wife and a nag, choose them from your neighborhood."
"Sicilian","A wealthy man is a wise man: a poor man knows nothing."
"Sicilian","A woman without love is like a rose without a scent."
"Sicilian","A couple married on Monday is headed for a fall."
"Sicilian","A good kid goat comes from a young goat and a good lamb from a strong sheep."
"Sicilian","A good fire gives the cook latitude."
"Sicilian","A full ear requires three good things: good time, good seeds and good hoeing."
"Sicilian","A frequent accounting, a long friendship."
"Sicilian","A fortress is made of more than one stone."
"Sicilian","A fever in autumn is either long lasting or mortal."
"Sicilian","A fat cow makes a thin calf."
"Sicilian","A dry year still produces a harvestable crop."
"Sicilian","A dry January means a filled hayloft."
"Sicilian","A race horse gives you an advantage and wins the prize."
"Sicilian","A deadly sin can't be concealed."
"Sicilian","A good vineyard provides bread, wine, and firewood."
"Sicilian","A continuous fever even grounds the lion."
"Sicilian","A contented stomach, a forgiving heart; but an empty stomach pardons nothing."
"Sicilian","A coddled cat doesn't catch mice."
"Sicilian","A Christian is more of a scoundrel than a rascal of a non-believer."
"Sicilian","A cart horse doesn't last long."
"Sicilian","A bountiful pear harvest means shortages of everything else."
"Sicilian","A bird shows its worth with its song, an intellect by its speech."
"Sicilian","A big dog doesn't play around with a lap dog."
"Sicilian","A bequest, a found treasure, and parsimony make a man wealthy."
"Sicilian","A dog for the mother, a horse for the father."
"Sicilian","A lazy woman is never virtuous."
"Sicilian","Agrigento is a good land with sad people."
"Sicilian","A person eating must make crumbs."
"Sicilian","A new doctor is a plague on the country."
"Sicilian","A neat house and a messy vineyard."
"Sicilian","A man without money is like the walking dead."
"Sicilian","A man without luck always goes on foot."
"Sicilian","A man is never so ridiculous by those qualities that are his own as by those he affects to have."
"Sicilian","A man is a man to the extent that he sticks by his word."
"Sicilian","A man could die just cultivating fava beans and the kitchen garden."
"Sicilian","A good old man is better than a bad young man."
"Sicilian","A long dress makes a lady."
"Sicilian","A good rooster crows everywhere."
"Sicilian","A lady has to be of the right cut and the right measure to make a pretty figure."
"Sicilian","A jealous man is born cuckolded."
"Sicilian","A house without a woman impoverishes."
"Sicilian","A house that is not seen by the sun, is visited often by the doctor."
"Sicilian","A hot sun with a lot of wind, I go home and I am happy."
"Sicilian","A horse without spurs is like a ship without a rudder."
"Sicilian","A hitch makes a calf, a sty makes a pig, the open field makes lamb, the hay barn makes a kid goat."
"Sicilian","A high price moderates desire."
"Sicilian","A granita doesn't cost much; still it's just water, wine is better."
"Sicilian","A purchased vineyard is tantamount to a stolen vineyard."
"Sicilian","A low fog leaves good weather."
"Sicilian","Better a poor husband than a lover who's a baron."
"Sicilian","Age and sins are more than are admitted."
"Sicilian","Better to die in the clutches of the lion than under the tail of a jackass."
"Sicilian","Better to die and have something to leave than to live wanting."
"Sicilian","Better to be wrongfully excommunicated than to make a death bed confession."
"Sicilian","Better to be shot with a crossbow than rejected by a window slammed shut."
"Sicilian","Better to be born a limpet in the sea, than a load bearing donkey."
"Sicilian","Better the devil you know than the devil you don't know."
"Sicilian","Better the bad one from a good breed than the better one from a bad breed."
"Sicilian","Better not fight with the condemned."
"Sicilian","Better to give than to receive."
"Sicilian","Better a woman who is dark-skinned and gracious, than one who is light-skinned and insipid."
"Sicilian","Better to have a good friend than a bad relative."
"Sicilian","Better a lean accord than a hefty sentence."
"Sicilian","Believe only a little of what you see and nothing that you hear."
"Sicilian","Believe half what's recounted, the less you believe, the better you'll do."
"Sicilian","Believe half of what you hear about wealth and holiness."
"Sicilian","Being overweight is being halfway sick."
"Sicilian","Being in love with a married woman is living on borrowed time."
"Sicilian","Before it's ready to eat the fig must be mature, dripping, with a bent neck and a thin skin."
"Sicilian","Before an angry face keep your mouth shut."
"Sicilian","Bed rest cures a hurt leg and a sling heals a hurting arm."
"Sicilian","Better an egg today than the chicken tomorrow."
"Sicilian","Break the soil when it's moist, plow with the warm weather, and do the seeding on time."
"Sicilian","God protect us from the Sicilian cop especially if he's from Palermo."
"Sicilian","Bypass monks with a big stride; have nothing to do with priests, except at Mass."
"Sicilian","By the feast of Saint Candelora winter is over."
"Sicilian","By Saint Candelora day if it's not snowing or raining, winter is over."
"Sicilian","By cultivating bottom land, you gain sustenance and goods."
"Sicilian","By candle light, neither women nor cloth."
"Sicilian","Buying teaches you to sell and earning teaches you to spend."
"Sicilian","Buyer beware."
"Sicilian","Buy good quality and sell at the market price."
"Sicilian","Better to die than to suffer."
"Sicilian","Brothers, rivers and priests are three bad neighbors."
"Sicilian","Be born rich, live parsimoniously and die rich."
"Sicilian","Bread and wine strengthen the back."
"Sicilian","Bread and cheese, neither beneficial nor bad."
"Sicilian","Both water and fire need to be treated with respect."
"Sicilian","Both cold and hunger make the mouth quiver."
"Sicilian","Blessed is the one who cares for his soul."
"Sicilian","Blessed is the house that has a son who is a cleric."
"Sicilian","Bitter things, hold them dear; sweet things, keep them enclosed."
"Sicilian","Beware when you deal with sharpies."
"Sicilian","Beware of false friends with wagging tongues."
"Sicilian","Buy at the cost of four and sell at the cost of eight."
"Sicilian","Among friends and relatives don't buy or sell anything."
"Sicilian","An unrequested excuse is a self accusation."
"Sicilian","An unfullfilled vow is as if it had not been made."
"Sicilian","An overbearing wife and a shouting husband will never be in peace."
"Sicilian","An old sin, a new sentence."
"Sicilian","An old disease can't be cured."
"Sicilian","An old business doesn't need advertising."
"Sicilian","An honest wife is a treasure that lasts, a sad wife is worse than the plague."
"Sicilian","An evening rainbow means good weather in the morning, a rainbow in the morning fills wells and fountains."
"Sicilian","An empty sack cannot stand up alone."
"Sicilian","Be slow to reach for your purse and quick to tip your hat."
"Sicilian","An appetite is a true companion to plain bread."
"Sicilian","April makes the flowers and the beauty, but May gets all the credit."
"Sicilian","Always use spurs with a horse, whether it's mean or gentle."
"Sicilian","Always ask a higher price, because you can always lower it."
"Sicilian","Although there's a new love, the old love can't be forgotten."
"Sicilian","All the fruit will mature in a warm and dry September."
"Sicilian","All the armament of Sicily won't arm fear."
"Sicilian","All rivers and streams run to the sea."
"Sicilian","All a doctor's mistakes lie buried."
"Sicilian","Alacci, remove the bones and be left with the bother."
"Sicilian","Ahi! I'm dying! Give me a hot water bottle and a cloak."
"Sicilian","An empty bag cannot stand upright."
"Sicilian","At C?ccamu there are the boors at Termini the brunette slaves; and at Palermo long-stemmed roses, beautiful on the outside and rotten on the inside."
"Sicilian","Castedduvitranu, Castelvetrano, rich in eggplants and good wine."
"Sicilian","Bad luck wears out even the stout-hearted."
"Sicilian","Avoid the bad, love the good, because things change in a moment."
"Sicilian","Avoid doctors and always keep them far away."
"Sicilian","August rain brings oil, honey and must."
"Sicilian","At the pharmacy don't taste, at the blacksmith's don't touch."
"Sicilian","At the dining table you should eat without constraint."
"Sicilian","At Taormina every climb has its descent."
"Sicilian","At fifty a man is either the Pope or a fool."
"Sicilian","April is the time for sweet sleep, don't take things off, don't put things on."
"Sicilian","At Caltagirone a hairy conscience and a crown with fifteen places."
"Sicilian","April is the time for the fava, but if not here, then surely by the sea."
"Sicilian","Asparagus and mushrooms teach a cook humility."
"Sicilian","As you treat me, so I'll treat you."
"Sicilian","As you pay the price with the fertilizer, the hoe and pruning determines the harvest of the olives."
"Sicilian","As the weather goes, so goes the patient."
"Sicilian","As Maguni the Carthaginian used to say: work to the vineyard, mind the store."
"Sicilian","As long as you're moving about you can always regain good health."
"Sicilian","As long as you don't trust, you won't be cheated."
"Sicilian","Around and around, the moth dies in the candle flame."
"Sicilian","April, as you see me; May, as I stay; June, as I am; by July, let everything fly."
"Sicilian","Be friendly with everyone and counsel with few."
"Sicilian","At death, one's words and defects are buried."
"Sicilian","You can't sleep and be on guard."
"Sicilian","You need firm care to cure deep melancholy."
"Sicilian","You may crush, bleed, stamp on and scratch me, but I won't play with fire."
"Sicilian","You learn by teaching."
"Sicilian","You get work from the young and advice from the old."
"Sicilian","You get more from a few good animals than from the many that are poorly grazed."
"Sicilian","You fool an old woman once; the next time she shuts the door on you."
"Sicilian","You find snails on the mountain slope with the dew from the ravines."
"Sicilian","You drive a donkey with a stick, an ox and a mule with a prod, and the horse with a whip and spurs."
"Sicilian","You don't spin, you don't weave, or wind, so where did you get this pile of money?"
"Sicilian","You don't measure a man in hands."
"Sicilian","You don't light candles to old saints."
"Sicilian","You don't choose whom to love and not love."
"Sicilian","If the olive trees blossom in April, you'll have enough to collect them with barrels; if they bud in May, you'll have enough to fill a small measure; but if as late as June, you'll only be collecting handfuls."
"Sicilian","You don't burn incense at an old crucifix."
"Sicilian","You need plant only one cherry and one plum tree."
"Sicilian","You can't shame the wicked."
"Sicilian","You can't punch your way into heaven."
"Sicilian","You can't make a rattle with a single walnut in a sack."
"Sicilian","You can't live a long life and remain upright."
"Sicilian","You can't kill your way into heaven."
"Sicilian","You can't have meat without the bone."
"Sicilian","You can't fight City Hall."
"Sicilian","You can't drive donkeys without a stick, nor horses without spurs."
"Sicilian","You can tell an educated person by their talk and bells by their ringing."
"Sicilian","If the winter doesn't winter, and the summer doesn't summer, the farmstead will be in trouble."
"Sicilian","If the tree doesn't bear fruit, cut it off at the base."
"Sicilian","If the rich man is fawning over the poor man, you can be certain that he needs something."
"Sicilian","You don't cast a net into a river that has no fish."
"Sicilian","You'll never be sated with bread and olives."
"Sicilian","God makes the new day with or without the rooster ."
"Sicilian","You can correct a mistake."
"Sicilian","Youth spent freely, old age spent in poverty."
"Sicilian","Your word is your bond."
"Sicilian","Your value is set by your worth."
"Sicilian","Your most faithful friends are your own hands."
"Sicilian","Your looks betray your thoughts."
"Sicilian","Your canine teeth can take you to the grave."
"Sicilian","You're wasting your time trying to interest the old in new endeavors."
"Sicilian","You're never too old to learn."
"Sicilian","You're bound to leave some grain when you harvest."
"Sicilian","You're blessed if you're here on Leap year."
"Sicilian","You need four men to make a good salad: a crazy man to mix it, a scholar for the salt, a miser for a touch of vinegar, and a squanderer for the oil."
"Sicilian","You'll realize he was a friend when you lose him and see him no more."
"Sicilian","You need land to seed, to live in luxury."
"Sicilian","You'll know the good soldier in battle."
"Sicilian","You'll begin to be rich when you learn to scorn riches."
"Sicilian","You'll become a lot better if you think about your death."
"Sicilian","You won't know who your friends are until you need them."
"Sicilian","You will not be loved if you only think of yourself."
"Sicilian","You want a grumpy dog and a lively horse."
"Sicilian","You shout in vain when you're calling the deaf."
"Sicilian","You only fool yourself when you seed badly."
"Sicilian","You never value something as much as when it's gone."
"Sicilian","You never get enough of kissing a sweetheart or eating snails."
"Sicilian","You need to have patience in storms: you don't eat honey without flies."
"Sicilian","You need to first experience adversity, before you can handle high praise."
"Sicilian","You're not poor if you have as much as you need."
"Sicilian","You'll regret in vain when you scorn good advice."
"Sicilian","Good management and feed give eggs."
"Sicilian","Headaches need soup."
"Sicilian","He's digging his own grave."
"Sicilian","He that scatters thorns, let him not go barefoot."
"Sicilian","Having vision as sharp as a kite and hearing as keen as a rabbit."
"Sicilian","Having a priest in the house is paradise on earth."
"Sicilian","Have no dealings with monks and priests."
"Sicilian","Haste makes waste."
"Sicilian","Harvest the grapes as soon as they mature while there is still good dry weather."
"Sicilian","Happy are those who are well born, but happier are those who have a good death."
"Sicilian","Grief for a husband is like a pain in the elbow, sharp and short."
"Sicilian","Gout is the sickness of the rich."
"Sicilian","Good wine makes good blood."
"Sicilian","Health flows from the happiness of the heart."
"Sicilian","Good manners and not beauty leads to love."
"Sicilian","He knows little who doesn't help himself."
"Sicilian","Good land and a good wife bring a man well-being."
"Sicilian","God protect you from the man who looks down at the ground and the woman who looks up to heaven."
"Sicilian","Gold attracts a crowd."
"Sicilian","God save me from false friends, so that I can protect myself from my enemies."
"Sicilian","God would make short work of it."
"Sicilian","God save you from narrow doorways, a caning, stones thrown at the blind and the weighing of shop keepers."
"Sicilian","God save us from the end of March and the beginning of April."
"Sicilian","God save us from four people: doctors, notaries, pharmacists, and bad bosses."
"Sicilian","God save us from evil neighbors and from the indignation of the upright."
"Sicilian","God save us from a mistaken summons and poorly informed justice."
"Sicilian","You're young if you're healthy, and rich if you have no debts."
"Sicilian","If the North Wind takes to blowing, it will rain for a week."
"Sicilian","Good study and good care banish and break bad luck."
"Sicilian","If March is late in coming, June will suffer."
"Sicilian","If an offense has hurt you too much, leave it, my friend, for a future time."
"Sicilian","If between friends there is not equality, there won't be perfect love."
"Sicilian","If Catania had a port, Palermo would be dead."
"Sicilian","Hens feet don't spoil the chick."
"Sicilian","If I were a prophet, I wouldn't be wretched."
"Sicilian","I'll take care of today, let God take care of tomorrow."
"Sicilian","If it's a cock it will crow and crow, if it's a chicken it will peck its hip."
"Sicilian","If February isn't cold and rainy, the March landscape will be green."
"Sicilian","If Messina had gardens Palermo would be a bunch of poor country houses."
"Sicilian","If she's a nun in the abbey, she treats Jesus as an owner, but if she's a nun in the home, she serves Jesus and kisses him."
"Sicilian","If someone can take whatever you have, give them whatever they ask for."
"Sicilian","If the dowry doesn't support her, even the executioner is disinterested."
"Sicilian","If the mare jumps, the filly will jump higher."
"Sicilian","If the mule isn't kicking, it's biting."
"Sicilian","Having health without wealth is being half sick."
"Sicilian","Honor is determined by your dress."
"Sicilian","Hunger never saw bad bread."
"Sicilian","Hunger is the best sauce."
"Sicilian","Hunger doesn't have to look for an appetite."
"Sicilian","How much is prestige worth, not as much as Palermo, if you take away the saints."
"Sicilian","How can you get smallpox in old age?"
"Sicilian","Horses should be bays, jackasses should be greys, and mules should be blackish."
"Sicilian","Horses from Ragusa, mules from Spaccaforno, and jackasses from Modica ."
"Sicilian","Honesty and kindness enhance every beauty."
"Sicilian","Holy souls! One of them gathers and many eat."
"Sicilian","Her beauty is the only dowery a beautiful girl needs."
"Sicilian","Honey is often bitter."
"Sicilian","I'll believe the thunder when I see the lightning."
"Sicilian","If it isn't wintry in January then expect the worst in February."
"Sierra Leonean","The elephant's head is no load for a child."
"Sierra Leonean","The cow must graze where she is tied."
"Sierra Leonean","I grew up among wise men and found that there is nothing better for man than silence."
"Sierra Leonean","Knowledge is not the main thing, but deeds."
"Sierra Leonean","Knowledge without practice makes but half an artist."
"Sierra Leonean","The big fish is caught with big bait."
"Sierra Leonean","Do not tell the man who is carrying you that he stinks."
"Sierra Leonean","Proverbs are the children of experience."
"Sierra Leonean","Only a monkey understands a monkey."
"Sierra Leonean","Knowledge without practice makes but half an artist."
"Sierra Leonean","It is the wandering dog that finds the old bone."
"Sierra Leonean","Knowledge is not the main thing, but deeds."
"Sierra Leonean","Sweet rice is eaten quickly."
"Sierra Leonean","The cow must graze where she is tied."
"Sierra Leonean","The elephant's head is no load for a child."
"Sierra Leonean","When a single hair has fallen from your head, you are not yet bald."
"Sierra Leonean","Quarrels end, but words once spoken never die."
"Sierra Leonean","It is better to be loved than feared."
"Sierra Leonean","To try and fail is not laziness."
"Sierra Leonean","A paddle here, a paddle there -- the canoe stays still."
"Sierra Leonean","The big fish is caught with big bait."
"Sierra Leonean","Invite people into your parlor, and they will come into your bedroom."
"Sierra Leonean","A hundred aunts is not the same as one mother."
"Sierra Leonean","An elephant's head is no load for a child."
"Sierra Leonean","An orange never bears a lime."
"Sierra Leonean","Death is the key that will open a miser's coffers."
"Sierra Leonean","Even though chickens don't wash, their eggs are still white."
"Sierra Leonean","He who refuses a gift will not fill his barn."
"Sierra Leonean","He who upsets something should know how to put it back again."
"Sierra Leonean","If you climb up a tree, you must climb down the same tree."
"Sierra Leonean","However full the house, the hen finds a corner to lay in."
"Sierra Leonean","I grew up among wise men and found that there is nothing better for man than silence."
"Sierra Leonean","Do not tell the man who is carrying you that he stinks."
"Sierra Leonean","A black cow also gives white milk."
"Singaporean","Incremental efforts have an impact as benefits accumulate."
"Singaporean","Where there is a sea, there are pirates."
"Singaporean","Never take a quiet person for granted. He might have great qualities underneath his quiet nature."
"Singaporean","A given excuse that was not asked for implies guilt. Clapping with only the right hand will not make a noise."
"Singaporean","The person who can see a house in China is unaware of an elephant on his nose."
"Singhalese","Eat coconuts while you have teeth."
"Singhalese","Even the fall of a dancer is a somersault."
"Singhalese","If you had teeth of steel, you could eat iron coconuts."
"Singhalese","By committing foolish acts, one learns wisdom."
"Sinhali","When the wild pigs running (inadvertently) crushes the seed shells, the wild birds celebrate."
"Sinhali","When the dogs bark at the moon, the moon is not brought down because of it."
"Sinhali","The fool carries the burden. "
"Sinhali","Dont believe everything you hear, and dont tell everything you believe."
"Sinhali","During the daylight, a person will not fall into a pit that he fell into during the nighttime."
"Sinhali","If you can't do the deed, don't block another from trying."
"Sinhali","Make thyself a noble man before advicing others."
"Sinhali","Think before you leap."
"Sioux","If you don't know where you are going, any path will take you there."
"Sioux","Love yourself; get outside yourself and take action. focus on the solution; be at peace."
"Sioux","First you are to think always of god. second you are to use all your powers to care for your people and especially the poor."
"Sioux","A people without a history is like the wind over buffalo grass."
"Sioux","Guard your tongue in youth, and in age you may mature a thought that will be of service to your people."
"Sioux","Before you choose a counselor, watch him with his neighbor's children."
"Slovak","He who accepts favors, pawns his freedom."
"Slovak","Who buys cheap pays twice."
"Slovak","There is no wise response to a foolish remark."
"Slovak","The one who first shuts up in an argument is from a good family."
"Slovak","The gates of hell are always open, even at midnight."
"Slovak","The flour tastes bitter to the mouse who has had enough."
"Slovak","Man is the head and woman is the crown upon it."
"Slovak","Kill your anger while it is small."
"Slovak","He who blows into the wind gets smoke in his eyes."
"Slovak","Gold without wisdom is but clay."
"Slovak","Don't shake the tree when the pears fall off themselves."
"Slovak","Custom and law are sisters."
"Slovak","Cabbage is best after it is reheated seven times."
"Slovak","Better to eat bread in peace, then cake amid turmoil."
"Slovak","Anger is the only thing to put off till tomorrow."
"Slovak","In the darkness all cows are black."
"Slovakian","Don't shake the tree when the pears fall off themselves."
"Slovakian","Don't shake the tree when the pears fall off themselves."
"Slovakian","Misfortune teaches us to pray."
"Slovakian","Anger is the only thing to put off till tomorrow."
"Slovenian","Speak the truth, but leave immediately after."
"Slovenian","All roads do not lead to Rome."
"Slovenian","Pray for a good harvest, but keep on hoeing."
"Slovenian","Speak the truth, but leave immediately after."
"Slovenian","You can do nothing about governments and winter."
"Slovenian","What you build easily will fall quickly."
"Slovenian","Pray to God for a good harvest, but keep on hoeing."
"Slovenian","Pray for a good harvest, but keep on hoeing."
"Slovenian","Never whisper to the deaf, or wink at the blind."
"Slovenian","All roads do not lead to Rome."
"Slovenian","Man's life is like a drop of dew on a leaf."
"Slovenian","It is easier ro believe than to go and ask."
"Slovenian","A doorstep is the highest of all mountains."
"Slovenian","In small churches, small saints are big."
"Slovenian","Who is forced to go to church will not pray."
"Slovenian","God knows why he has made the wings of some birds shorter."
"Slovenian","Never whisper to the deaf, or wink at the blind."
"Slovenian","Every road does not lead to Rome."
"Sokhumi","The wind does not break a tree that bends."
"Somali","A man prolonging his age sees a camel giving birth."
"Somali","A brave man is scared of a lion three times: first when he sees the tracks; second when he hears the first roar; and third when they are face to face."
"Somali","An escaped lie does not reach the truth."
"Somali","A thief is always under suspicion."
"Somali","An old wound will not go away."
"Somali","A sinking persons grabs a straw."
"Somali","A person stands next to a shade not next to words."
"Somali","A married couple is neither enemies nor friends."
"Somali","A man with a sense of humor is never at a loss for words or action."
"Somali","A man who has eaten something becomes shy."
"Somali","A man throws stones not words."
"Somali","A thousand assignations, one marriage."
"Somali","A man one year elder to you is one cunning year elder to you."
"Somali","A madman does not lack wisdom."
"Somali","A dog which refuses a bone is not alive."
"Somali","A deer is an elder to its family."
"Somali","A coward is full of precaution."
"Somali","A coward dies before the courageous dies."
"Somali","A childless old lady is obsessed with sea shells."
"Somali","A cat in her house has the teeth of a lion."
"Somali","A brother is like one's shoulder."
"Somali","A brave man dies once, a coward a thousand times."
"Somali","The stronger man will rule the house."
"Somali","Do not walk into a snake pit with your eyes open."
"Somali","A camel can tolerate a heavy load, but not a crooked rope."
"Somali","What you see is what you believe."
"Somali","The child you sired hasn't sired you."
"Somali","The ear cannot hold as much water as it does news."
"Somali","The fowl digs out the blade that kills it."
"Somali","The person who does not listen to an elder's advice gets his or her leg broken."
"Somali","The teeth and the tongue are close neighbors, and yet they sometimes bite each other."
"Somali","There is always a better man for every good man."
"Somali","These youth taught their mother to give birth."
"Somali","Think before you do."
"Somali","To be without a friend is to be poor indeed."
"Somali","To be without knowledge is to be without light."
"Somali","The bridge is repaired only after someone falls in the water."
"Somali","Water and milk do not mix."
"Somali","When a man sleeps, it is the same person when he wakes up."
"Somali","When the snake is in the house, one need not discuss the matter at length."
"Somali","Where I make my living, there is my home."
"Somali","Where there is breast there can be no brain."
"Somali","Where there is negotiation, there is hope for agreement."
"Somali","Wisdom does not come overnight."
"Somali","You don't go searching for bones in a lion's den."
"Somali","You lend a false ear to false words."
"Somali","You should discuss over a dog's hide when it concerns your interest."
"Somali","Your woman should be in the house or in the grave."
"Somali","Dogs understand each other by their barking, and men by their words."
"Somali","The most dangerous thing a man needs is woman."
"Somali","To try and fail is not laziness."
"Somali","He, who does not seize opportunity today, will be unable to seize tomorrow's opportunity."
"Somali","Where I make a living, there is my home."
"Somali","Either be a mountain or lean on one."
"Somali","The best bed that a man can sleep on is peace."
"Somali","Don't set out on a journey using someone else's donkey."
"Somali","Even the brave are scared by a lion three times: first by its tracks, again by its roar, and one last time face to face."
"Somali","Every camel was once upon time two years old."
"Somali","He is a fool who marries an old woman without teeth."
"Somali","He who takes responsibility becomes the target of the people."
"Somali","If people come together, they can even mend a crack in the sky."
"Somali","If you want to dismantle a hedge, remove one thorn bush at a time."
"Somali","Ignorance is blindness."
"Somali","In the ocean, one does not need to sow water."
"Somali","Only water in your hands can satisfy your thirst."
"Somali","Sorrow is like rice in the store; if a basketful is removed everyday, it will come to an end at last."
"Somali","Somalis don't say a false proverb."
"Somali","He who does not shave you does not cut you."
"Somali","Poverty is slavery."
"Somali","Let what is on this side of the bank be washed out by the flood, and what is on that side of the bank be carried away by the wind."
"Somali","One should rise to a person who sees you sitting."
"Somali","One shares food not words."
"Somali","One refusing a sibling's advice breaks his arm."
"Somali","One doesn't tell a man 'go away' but one shows him something so he will go."
"Somali","One cannot count on riches."
"Somali","Oh hyena, you cannot drag away hides without making a sound."
"Somali","Men for tea, women for talk."
"Somalian","Where I make my living, there is my home."
"South African","Walls have ears, and little pots too."
"South African","The greatest death is laughter."
"South African","The quail waits for the stick; the idle loiterer about a place waits for a kick from an old boot."
"South African","The poor man's proverb is never quoted."
"South African","The pool has dried up, and the fish is in trouble."
"South African","The one chased away with a club comes back, but the one chased away with reason does not."
"South African","The last partridge to rise gets the most sticks thrown at it."
"South African","The impatient person eats goat; the one who hesitates eats beef."
"South African","The girl with stars in her eyes will shine like the moonlight."
"South African","The hand that rocks the cradle rules the nation and its destiny."
"South African","The seed waits for its garden or ground where it will be sown."
"South African","The fool who owns an ox is seldom recognized as a fool."
"South African","The foot pains in sympathy with the toe."
"South African","When you shoot a zebra in the black stripe, the white dies too; shoot it in the white and the black dies too."
"South African","The heart is like a goat that has to be tied up."
"South African","When a bird builds its nest it uses the feathers of other birds."
"South African","One who enters a hut does not smell the termites roasting in the boiler."
"South African","The dupe who takes possession of a lame ox is seldom recognized as a fool."
"South African","You are not great just because you say you are."
"South African","Where there is honey, there are bound to be ants."
"South African","When you have touched a woman, you have struck a rock."
"South African","When you climb the mountain and reach the top, do not forget the branches shrubs that helped your footing."
"South African","When you have a lot to do, start with a meal."
"South African","When the elephant is slain all the tribes gather together to eat of it."
"South African","The strength of the crocodile is in the water."
"South African","What the poor man says is not listened to."
"South African","Walls have ears, and little pots too."
"South African","Until the lions have their historians, tales of hunting will always glorify the hunter."
"South African","Two wives, two pots of poison."
"South African","The wrong-headed fool who refuses counsel, will come to grief."
"South African","The woman who always complains and is never satisfied with anything is like an annoying flea on the foot."
"South African","When two elephants meet on a narrow bridge, they get nowhere until one of them backs down or lies down."
"South African","Even the maid has a family."
"South African","Plenty sits still, hunger is a wanderer."
"South African","The drums of war are the drums of hunger."
"South African","A chattering bird builds no nest."
"South African","A fool is a wise man's ladder."
"South African","A termite grows up in dry wood, and yet comes to maturity."
"South African","Abundance does not spread; famine does."
"South African","Almost is not eaten."
"South African","An Elder does not break wind in public, but in a latrine."
"South African","As great birds die the eggs rot."
"South African","Before you milk a cow tie it up."
"South African","By pounding the dough the bread will rise."
"South African","He who has no intelligence is happy with it."
"South African","He. He. He. You begin with the meal before the water is boiling."
"South African","Hope does not kill; I shall live in hope of getting what I seek another day."
"South African","Old age does not announce itself."
"South African","The best time to plant a tree is 20 years ago; the next best time is now."
"South African","Roasted locusts eaten at night bring dangerous dreams."
"South African","Behold the iguana puffing itself out to make itself a man."
"South African","Once you have found your first diamond, you will never give up looking."
"South African","If he keeps on imitating everybody the monkey will one day cut his own throat."
"South African","No stake ever grew old with the bark on."
"South African","No one drinks medicine on behalf of a sick person."
"South African","No man can perfectly empty a pot with a ladle."
"South African","Knowledge is like a lion; it cannot be gently embraced."
"South African","It is the snake that smells the rat."
"South African","It is hunger that killed the man with many wives."
"South African","If you are looking for a fly in your food it means that you are full."
"South African","No hill without gravestones, no valley without shadows."
"South African","people are people through other people."
"South African","If your buttocks burn, you know you have done wrong."
"South American","Widows weep but they look for another husband."
"South American","Old love and wood will burn as soon as they get the chance."
"South American","Such is the fate of the sheep: either shorn or roasted."
"South American","The baby who doesn't cry isn't nursed."
"South American","The daughter-in-law wipes away what the mother-in-law has seen."
"South American","Two cats will not live together in one sack."
"South American","You cannot hide the sun with one hand."
"South American","He who lives on illusions, dies of disillusion."
"South American","Old debts are never paid, and the new ones get old easily."
"South American","The lazybones must work twice."
"South American","For our sins God has created three enemies for us: mice in the house, the fox in the mountains, and a priest in our village."
"South American","A good guitarist will play on one string."
"South American","None of us knows who we are."
"South American","Better a devil you know than a hundred strangers."
"South American","God writes on crooked lines."
"South American","Hens perched on top will shit on those below."
"South American","He who prays a lot is afraid of something."
"South American","If you are going to die you will die in the dark even if you have been in the candle business."
"South American","Laughing wife, crying purse."
"South American","Light in the streets, shadows in the house."
"South American","Become famous, then go to sleep."
"South Sotho","He that digs up a grave for his enemy, may be digging it for himself."
"South Sotho","A bad name is like a stigma."
"South Sotho","A bird will always use another birds' feathers to feather its own nest."
"South Sotho","A man's grave is by the roadside."
"South Sotho","A person is a person because of other persons."
"Southern","When a man say him do not mind, then him mind."
"Spanish","From a silent man, and a dog that does not bark, deliver us."
"Spanish","Give a dog a bad name and hang him."
"Spanish","Give a clown your foot, and he'll take your hand."
"Spanish","Gifts break (or dissolve) rocks."
"Spanish","Four things put a man beside himself--women, tobacco, cards, and wine."
"Spanish","Good men must die, but death cannot kill their names."
"Spanish","Give a traitor good words and you make him loyal."
"Spanish","From snow, whether baked or boiled, you will get nothing but water."
"Spanish","Give me a seat, and I will make myself room to lie down."
"Spanish","From smooth water God preserve me, from rough I will preserve myself."
"Spanish","From my gossip's bread a large piece for my godson."
"Spanish","From long journeys long lies."
"Spanish","From a silent person remove your dwelling."
"Spanish","Go to your aunt's house, but not every day."
"Spanish","For evil tongues, scissors."
"Spanish","For the want of worthy men they made my father alcade."
"Spanish","For want of a nail the shoe is lost."
"Spanish","For whom does the blind man's wife adorn herself?"
"Spanish","For whom sword and courage are not enough, corslet and lance will not be enough."
"Spanish","Fox's broth, cold and scalding."
"Spanish","Foster a raven and it will peck out your eyes."
"Spanish","From a praying young man, and a fasting old man, God preserve my cloak."
"Spanish","Good wine needs no crier."
"Spanish","Give me the ass that carries me in preference to the horse that throws me."
"Spanish","Fresh port and new wine, send a Christian to the churchyard. (Kill a man before his time.)"
"Spanish","Friday pretexts for not fasting (meaning pleas of indisposition for not eating fish.)"
"Spanish","Friendship broken may be soldered, but never made whole."
"Spanish","From a fallen tree, all make kindling."
"Spanish","Fortune aids the bold."
"Spanish","God grant me to contend with those that understand me."
"Spanish","Enjoy your little while the fool seeks for more."
"Spanish","For better for worse they have married me."
"Spanish","Good luck makes its way in by elbowing."
"Spanish","Good is the fowl which another rears."
"Spanish","God, healeth, and the physician hath the thanks."
"Spanish","God writes straight with crooked lines."
"Spanish","God will provide, but a good bundle of straw will not be amiss."
"Spanish","God will listen to you whatever cloak you wear."
"Spanish","God take you, pound (of flax), drunk out and not yet spun."
"Spanish","God makes the back to the burden."
"Spanish","God made us, and we admire ourselves."
"Spanish","God keep you from ""It is too late."""
"Spanish","Go to bed with the lamb, and rise with the lark."
"Spanish","God grant you good fortune, my son, for knowledge avails you little."
"Spanish","Give orders and do no more, and nothing will come of it."
"Spanish","God grant me to argue with those who understand me."
"Spanish","God gives wings to the ant that she may perish the sooner."
"Spanish","God gives almonds to one who has no teeth."
"Spanish","God does not smite with both hands."
"Spanish","God delays but doesn't forget."
"Spanish","God defend you from the devil, the eye of a harlot, and the turn of a die."
"Spanish","God cures, and the doctor takes the fee."
"Spanish","Go to friends for advice; to women for pity; to strangers for charity; to relatives for nothing."
"Spanish","Go to bed supperless and you will wake without debt."
"Spanish","Go not with every ailment to the doctor, with every plea to the lawyer, or with every thirst to the can."
"Spanish","Go not every evening to your brother's house."
"Spanish","Go in God's name, for he takes a loaf of mine."
"Spanish","Giving alms never lessens the purse."
"Spanish","God helps the early riser."
"Spanish","Don't take any wooden nickles."
"Spanish","Every fool is pleased with his bauble."
"Spanish","Every country has its custom."
"Spanish","Every cock is proud on his own dung hill."
"Spanish","Every cock crows on his own dunghill."
"Spanish","Even the best writer has to erase."
"Spanish","Good words and bad deeds deceive both wise and simple."
"Spanish","Entreaties to get him to sing, and entreaties to leave off."
"Spanish","He that would be healthy, must eat temperately, and sup early."
"Spanish","Either you sink or you swim."
"Spanish","Either the ass will die, or he that goads it."
"Spanish","Either rich or hanged."
"Spanish","Eating sets the head to rights."
"Spanish","Entreaty and right do the deed."
"Spanish","Drink wine upon figs."
"Spanish","Every man is the son of his own works."
"Spanish","Don't stop the way of a bull or of a current of air."
"Spanish","Don't spoil the ship for a halfpenny-worth of tar."
"Spanish","Don't speak unless you can improve on the silence."
"Spanish","Don't send away your cat for being a thief."
"Spanish","Don't scuffle with the potter, for he makes money by the damage."
"Spanish","Don't kill the man at the count's desire."
"Spanish","Don't bite off more than you can chew."
"Spanish","Don't bet more than you can afford to lose."
"Spanish","Don't believe what you see, husband, but only what I tell you."
"Spanish","Do you want to see a wolf with young (i.e. an insatiable plunderer)? Marry your daughter."
"Spanish","Do you want to buy cheap? Buy of a needy fool."
"Spanish","Do you carry the trough, husband, and I will carry the sieve, which is as heavy as the devil."
"Spanish","Do what the friar says, and not what he does."
"Spanish","Dung is no saint, but where it falls it works miracles."
"Spanish","Fast as the hare runs, the greyhound outruns her, since he catches her."
"Spanish","For a good companion good company."
"Spanish","Fools and the perverse fill the lawyers' purse."
"Spanish","Fools and bairns should never see half-done work."
"Spanish","Fond pride of dress is sure a very curse; Ere fancy you consult, consult your purse."
"Spanish","Fond of lawsuits, little wealth; fond of doctors, little health; fond of friars, little honour."
"Spanish","Fond of lawsuits, little wealth, Fond of doctors, little health."
"Spanish","Folly is the product of all countries and ages."
"Spanish","Folly is the most incurable of maladies."
"Spanish","Flying from the bull he fell into the river."
"Spanish","First come to the mill, first grind."
"Spanish","First cobwebs, then chains."
"Spanish","Fire, fire, many pots on. and one pea in them all."
"Spanish","He who loves Peter won't harm his dog."
"Spanish","Every law is broken to become a king."
"Spanish","Every potter praises his pot, especially if cracked."
"Spanish","For all one's early rising, it dawns none the sooner."
"Spanish","Every man should support himself, and not hang upon another."
"Spanish","Every one in his own house, and God in all men's."
"Spanish","Every one is wise when the mischief is done."
"Spanish","Every one sneezes as God pleases."
"Spanish","Fire and love do not say ""Go to your work."""
"Spanish","Every one wishes to bring water to his own mill, and leave his neighbour's dry."
"Spanish","Feet that are used to move cannot remain quiet."
"Spanish","Everybody's friends and nobody's friend is all one."
"Spanish","Everything in its season, and turnips in Advent."
"Spanish","Expect not at another's hand what you can do by your own."
"Spanish","Fall sick, and you will see who is your friend and who not."
"Spanish","Fancy surpasses beauty."
"Spanish","Every man is a fool in some man's opinion."
"Spanish","Every one speaks of the fair as he himself finds it."
"Spanish","He who gives to the public, gives to no one."
"Spanish","He that will not when he may, when he will he shall have nay."
"Spanish","He who has a trade may travel through the world."
"Spanish","He who has a tongue goes to Rome."
"Spanish","He who has a son grown up should not call another a thief."
"Spanish","He who has a handsome wife, a castle on the frontier, or a vineyard on the roadside, is never without war."
"Spanish","He who has a good wife can bear any evil."
"Spanish","He who has a bad wife can expect no happiness that can be so called."
"Spanish","He who hangs out a branch wants to sell his wine."
"Spanish","He who greases his wheels, helps his oxen."
"Spanish","He who grasps at much holds fast little."
"Spanish","He who grasps all loses all."
"Spanish","He who goes with wolves learns to howl."
"Spanish","He who has been stung by the scorpion is frightened at its shadow."
"Spanish","He who gives when he is asked has waited too long."
"Spanish","He who has both money and bread, may choose with whom his daughter to wed."
"Spanish","He who finds fault wants to buy."
"Spanish","He who eats the meat let him pick the bone."
"Spanish","He who eats and puts by, has sufficient for two meals."
"Spanish","He who eats alone chokes alone."
"Spanish","He who dresses ion others' clothes will be undressed on the highway."
"Spanish","He who doubts nothing knows nothing."
"Spanish","He who does what he likes, does not what he ought."
"Spanish","He who loves me loves my dog too."
"Spanish","He who does not whip the child does not mend the youth."
"Spanish","He who does not tire, achieves."
"Spanish","He who does not speak, God does not hear."
"Spanish","He who does not show himself, is overlooked."
"Spanish","He who does not repair his gutter has a whole house to repair."
"Spanish","He who goes far from home to marry, goes either to deceive or be deceived."
"Spanish","He who has two masters to serve must lie to one of them."
"Spanish","A great position entails great responsibility."
"Spanish","Do what I say well, and not what I do ill."
"Spanish","He who loves Bertrand loves his dog."
"Spanish","He who looks demurely trust not with your money."
"Spanish","He who lives in hopes, breakfasts ill and sups worse."
"Spanish","He who lives a long life must pass through much evil."
"Spanish","He who laid a snare for me has fallen into it."
"Spanish","He who knows little soon tells it."
"Spanish","He who keeps his own secret avoids much mischief."
"Spanish","He who is silent gains store."
"Spanish","He who is in the mud likes to get another into it."
"Spanish","He who is feared gets more than his own."
"Spanish","He who has been first a novice and then an abbot, knows what the boys do behind the altar."
"Spanish","He who helps everybody, helps nobody."
"Spanish","He who does not look before lags behind."
"Spanish","He who has shipped the devil, must carry him over the sound."
"Spanish","He who has sheep has fleeces."
"Spanish","He who has servants has unavoidable enemies."
"Spanish","He who has no wife, is for thrashing her daily; but he that has one, takes care of her."
"Spanish","He who has no voice in the valley, will have none in the council."
"Spanish","He who has no house of his own is everywhere at home."
"Spanish","He who has no head wants no hat."
"Spanish","He who has lost his reputation is a dead man among the living."
"Spanish","He who has lost his oxen is always hearing bells."
"Spanish","He who has got four and spends five, has no occasion for a purse."
"Spanish","He who has enemies, let him not sleep."
"Spanish","He who has daughters to marry, let him give them silk to spin."
"Spanish","He who has but one coat cannot lend it."
"Spanish","He who is everybody's friend is either very poor or very rich."
"Spanish","He has much to do who would please everybody."
"Spanish","He that has an ill name is half hanged."
"Spanish","He that has an hour's start will not be hanged."
"Spanish","He that has a good harvest must be content with a few thistles."
"Spanish","He that eats the king's geese shall be choked with the feathers."
"Spanish","He that eats his fowl alone may saddle his horse alone."
"Spanish","He that does not lie, does not come of good blood."
"Spanish","He loses his market who has nothing to sell."
"Spanish","He knows it as well as his Lord's Prayer."
"Spanish","He is your friend who gets you out of a fray."
"Spanish","He is out of danger who rings the alarm-bell."
"Spanish","He is in safety who rings the tocsin."
"Spanish","He is blind enough who cannot see through a sieve."
"Spanish","He who does not pick up a pin cares nothing for his wife."
"Spanish","He is a great simpleton who starves himself to feed another."
"Spanish","He that is not gallant at twenty, strong at thirty, rich at forty, or experienced at fifty, will never be gallant, strong, rich, or prudent."
"Spanish","He goes safely to trial whose father is a judge."
"Spanish","He gathers up ashes and scatters flour."
"Spanish","He falls into the pit who leads another into it."
"Spanish","He expects to find water at the first stroke of the spade."
"Spanish","He did not invent gunpowder."
"Spanish","He cannot find water in the sea."
"Spanish","He can do but little who cannot threaten another."
"Spanish","He buys well who is not called a donkey."
"Spanish","Have a bill to pay at Easter, and your Lent will be short."
"Spanish","Happy the house in which there is no shaven crown."
"Spanish","Good, that comes too late, is good as nothing."
"Spanish","Good, good, good, but God keep my ass out of his rye."
"Spanish","Good words fill not a sack."
"Spanish","He is always right who suspects that he makes mistakes."
"Spanish","He who at thirty has no brains, will never purchase an estate."
"Spanish","Good words and no deeds are rushes and reeds."
"Spanish","He who does not honour his wife, dishonours himself."
"Spanish","He who does no more than another is no better than another."
"Spanish","He who does good to you either dies or goes away."
"Spanish","He who denies everything confesses everything."
"Spanish","He who delays, gathers."
"Spanish","He who dances well goes from wedding to wedding."
"Spanish","He who comes first grinds first."
"Spanish","He who catches one fish is a fisherman."
"Spanish","He who buys and sells does not feel what he spends."
"Spanish","He who buts a horse buys care."
"Spanish","He who builds a house, or marries, is left with a lank purse."
"Spanish","He who begins badly, ends badly."
"Spanish","He that has no ill luck grows weary of good luck."
"Spanish","He that will not when he can, cannot when he will."
"Spanish","He who does not mix with the crowd knows nothing."
"Spanish","He that is not sensible of his loss has lost nothing."
"Spanish","He that makes one basket can make a hundred."
"Spanish","He that neglects time, time will neglect."
"Spanish","He that stirs honey will have some of it stick to him."
"Spanish","He who avoids the temptation avoids the sin."
"Spanish","He that trusts a faithless friend, has a good witness against him."
"Spanish","He who at twenty understands nothing, at thirty knows nothing, and at forty has nothing, will lead a wretched old age."
"Spanish","He that would be healthy must wear his winter clothes in summer."
"Spanish","He that would have a beautiful wife should choose her on a Saturday."
"Spanish","He to whom God gives no sons, the devil gives nephews."
"Spanish","He who always tells me a lie never cheats me."
"Spanish","He who asks the fewest favours is the best received."
"Spanish","He that is more civil than usual, either wants to cozen you or has need of you."
"Spanish","He that ties well, unties well."
"Spanish","A man that is lean, not from hunger, is harder than brass."
"Spanish","After breaking my head you bring plaister."
"Spanish","A pig bought on credit grunts all the year."
"Spanish","A penny spared is a penny saved."
"Spanish","A peck of March dust is worth a king's ransom."
"Spanish","A peasant will stand on the top of a hill for a very long time with his mouth open before a roast duck will fly in."
"Spanish","A peasant between two lawyers is like a fish between two cats."
"Spanish","A north wind has no corn, and a poor man no friend."
"Spanish","A mule and a woman do what is expected of them."
"Spanish","A morsel eaten selfishly does not gain a friend."
"Spanish","A monkey remains a monkey, though dressed in silk."
"Spanish","A mewing cat is never a good mouser."
"Spanish","A melon and a woman are hard to know."
"Spanish","A pig's tail will never make a good arrow."
"Spanish","A man who prides himself on his ancestry is like the potato plant, the best part of which is underground."
"Spanish","A poor man is all schemes."
"Spanish","A man that has had his fill is no eater."
"Spanish","A man may lose his goods for want of demanding them."
"Spanish","A man may hap to bring home with him what makes him weep."
"Spanish","A man gains nothing by vain glory but contempt and hatred."
"Spanish","A man forewarned is as good as two."
"Spanish","A little loss frightens, a great one tames."
"Spanish","A little gall embitters much honey."
"Spanish","A lazy youth, a lousy age."
"Spanish","A lazy ox is little the better for the goad."
"Spanish","A lawsuit for a maravedi consumes a real's worth of paper."
"Spanish","A lame goat will not sleep by day."
"Spanish","A kitchen-dog is never a good rabbit-hunter."
"Spanish","A husband with one eye rather than with a son."
"Spanish","A measly hog infects the whole sty."
"Spanish","A sooty chimney costs many a beef-steak."
"Spanish","A handful of motherwit is worth a bushel of learning."
"Spanish","According to the custom of Aragon, good service, bad guerdon."
"Spanish","About the King and the Inquisition, hush!"
"Spanish","Abbot of Carcuela, you eat up the pot and ask for the pipkin."
"Spanish","A word from the mouth, a stone from a sling."
"Spanish","A word and a stone once launched cannot be recalled."
"Spanish","A woman's tears and a log's limping are not real."
"Spanish","A wise man changes his mind, a fool never."
"Spanish","A well-wisher sees from afar."
"Spanish","A turtle makes progress when it sticks its neck out."
"Spanish","A turn of the key is better than the conscience of a friar."
"Spanish","A true gentleman would rather have his clothes torn than mended."
"Spanish","A pig bought on credit is forever grunting."
"Spanish","A sparrow in the hand is better than a bustard on the wing."
"Spanish","A hungry belly listens to no one."
"Spanish","A son-in-law's friendship is a winter's sun."
"Spanish","A sick man sleeps, but not a debtor."
"Spanish","A short horse is soon curried."
"Spanish","A short halter for a greedy horse."
"Spanish","A shoemaker's wife and a smith's mare are always the worst shod."
"Spanish","A shock dog is starved and nobody believes it."
"Spanish","A secret between two is God's secret, a secret between three is everybody's."
"Spanish","A scabby colt may make a good horse."
"Spanish","A rich man is either a scoundrel or the heir of a scoundrel."
"Spanish","A reconciled friend is a double enemy."
"Spanish","A proverb is a short sentence based on long experience."
"Spanish","A postern door makes a thief."
"Spanish","A Portuguese apprentice who can't sew, yet would be cutting out."
"Spanish","A tree often transplanted neither grows nor thrives."
"Spanish","A blow from a frying-pan, if it does not hurt, smuts."
"Spanish","A fast day is the eve of a feast day."
"Spanish","A devotee's face, and a cat's claws."
"Spanish","A determined heart will not be counselled."
"Spanish","A daily guest is a thief in the kitchen."
"Spanish","A crazy vessel never falls from the hand."
"Spanish","A cracked bell will never be sound."
"Spanish","A covetous abbot for one offering loses a hundred."
"Spanish","A child of a year old sucks milk from the heel."
"Spanish","A buxom widow must be married, buried, or cloistered."
"Spanish","A bully is always a coward."
"Spanish","A buffeting threatened is never well given."
"Spanish","A boy's love is water in a sieve."
"Spanish","A hungry man is an angry man."
"Spanish","A blow with a reed makes a noise but hurts not."
"Spanish","A fool sometimes gives good counsel."
"Spanish","A blind man's wife needs no paint."
"Spanish","A bespattered hog tries to bespatter another."
"Spanish","A barking dog was never a good biter."
"Spanish","A bad wound may be cured, bad repute kills."
"Spanish","A bad thing never dies."
"Spanish","A bad mother wishes for good children."
"Spanish","A bad man's gift is like his master."
"Spanish","A bad labour, and a daughter after all."
"Spanish","A bad excuse is better than none."
"Spanish","A bad day never hath a good night."
"Spanish","A bad compromise is better than a successful suit."
"Spanish","He who loves well is slow to forget."
"Spanish","Let what is lost go for God's sake."
"Spanish","A boaster and a liar are cousins."
"Spanish","A good paymaster needs no security."
"Spanish","After one vice a greater follows."
"Spanish","A hundred tailors, a hundred millers, and a hundred weavers, are three hundred thieves."
"Spanish","A house ready built and a vineyard ready planted."
"Spanish","A house filled with guests is eaten up and ill spoken of."
"Spanish","A hangman is a good trade, he doth his work by daylight."
"Spanish","A handsome woman is either silly or vain."
"Spanish","A handsome man is not quite poor."
"Spanish","A hair casts its shadow on the ground."
"Spanish","A great man's entreaty is a command."
"Spanish","A great leap gives a great shake."
"Spanish","A great lance-thrust to a dead Moor."
"Spanish","A grand eloquence, little conscience."
"Spanish","A grain does not fill a sieve, but it helps its fellow."
"Spanish","A father's love, for all other is air."
"Spanish","A good heart breaks bad fortune."
"Spanish","A hungry man discovers more than a hundred lawyers."
"Spanish","A fool, if he holds his tongue, passes for wise."
"Spanish","A fool, unless he know Latin, is never a great fool."
"Spanish","A fortress on its guard is not surprised."
"Spanish","A fortunate man may be anywhere."
"Spanish","A good word extinguishes more than a pailful of water."
"Spanish","A girl draws more than a rope."
"Spanish","A good thing lost is a good thing valued."
"Spanish","A good hope is better than a bad possession."
"Spanish","A good life defers wrinkles."
"Spanish","A good listener is a silent flatterer."
"Spanish","A good name covers theft."
"Spanish","A good paymaster is keeper of other men's purses."
"Spanish","A fifth wheel to a cart is but an encumbrance."
"Spanish","A friend to everybody is a friend to nobody."
"Spanish","Blood boils without fire."
"Spanish","After a thrifty father, a prodigal son."
"Spanish","Colts by falling, and lads by losing, grow prudent."
"Spanish","Clergymen's sons always turn out badly."
"Spanish","Cleanliness is next to godliness."
"Spanish","Cleaning a blot with blotted fingers maketh a greater."
"Spanish","Clay and lime conceal much evil."
"Spanish","Choose neither a woman nor linen by candlelight."
"Spanish","Cheese from the ewe, milk from the goat, butter from the cow."
"Spanish","Charity well regulated begins at home."
"Spanish","Carry bread in your hood to Don Garcia's wedding."
"Spanish","Call me not fortunate till you see me buried."
"Spanish","By the thread we unwind the skein."
"Spanish","Come live with me and you'll know me."
"Spanish","Blow, smith, and you'll get money."
"Spanish","Comes in at the end with a wet sail."
"Spanish","Blessings on him that said, Face about."
"Spanish","Beware of a reconciled friend as of the devil."
"Spanish","Between two stools one falls to the ground."
"Spanish","Between two sharpers, the sharpest."
"Spanish","Between two friends a notary and two witnesses."
"Spanish","Between saying and doing there is a long road."
"Spanish","Better to bend than break."
"Spanish","Better they should say, ""There he ran away,"" than ""There he died."""
"Spanish","Better there should be too much than too little."
"Spanish","Better suffer a known evil than change for uncertain good."
"Spanish","Better sit idle than work for naught."
"Spanish","Better rule in hell, than serve in heaven."
"Spanish","Better one ""Take this,"" than two ""I will give you."""
"Spanish","By the street of ""By-and-By"" one arrives at the house of ""Never."""
"Spanish","Custom makes all things easy."
"Spanish","Do not throw a stone at the mouse and break the precious vase."
"Spanish","Do not tell your secrets behind a wall or a hedge."
"Spanish","Do not stuff your servant with bread, and he won't ask for cheese."
"Spanish","Do not steal a loaf from him that kneads and bakes."
"Spanish","Do not rejoice at my grief, for when mine is old yours will be new."
"Spanish","Do not lose honour through fear."
"Spanish","Do not fret for news, it will grow old and you will know it."
"Spanish","Do not buy a carrier's ass, or marry an innkeeper's daughter."
"Spanish","Discreet stops make speedy journeys."
"Spanish","Discover not your silent money (i.e. your hoarded money) to anybody."
"Spanish","Desire beautifies what is ugly."
"Spanish","Deeds are love, and not fine phrases."
"Spanish","Come fish, come frog, all goes into the basket."
"Spanish","Debts are like children; the smaller they are the more noise they make."
"Spanish","Better is the smoke of my own house than the fire of another's."
"Spanish","Custom in infancy becomes nature in old age."
"Spanish","Custom becomes law."
"Spanish","Curses, like chickens, come home to roost."
"Spanish","Curses, like chickens, always come home to roost."
"Spanish","Curses on accounts with relations."
"Spanish","Coward against coward, the assailant conquers."
"Spanish","Cow of many--well milked and badly fed."
"Spanish","Covetousness bursts the bag."
"Spanish","Corsair against corsair nothing is got but empty casks."
"Spanish","Copper begets copper, and not ()the labour of) men's bones."
"Spanish","Compare your griefs with other men's and they will seem less."
"Spanish","Command your wealth, else that will command you."
"Spanish","Coming events cast their shadow before."
"Spanish","Deceive not thy physician, confessor, or lawyer."
"Spanish","An ass let him be who brays at an ass."
"Spanish","As is the master, so is his dog."
"Spanish","As is the king, so are his people."
"Spanish","As for friars, live with them, eat with them, and walk with them; then sell them as they do themselves."
"Spanish","As are the times, so are the manners."
"Spanish","Arms and money require good hands."
"Spanish","Another's care hangs by a hair."
"Spanish","An ounce of wit that's bought Is worth a pound that's taught."
"Spanish","An ounce of state to a pound of gold."
"Spanish","An ounce of mother is worth a pound of priests."
"Spanish","An open door tempts a saint."
"Spanish","An oak is not felled at one stroke."
"Spanish","An oak is not felled at one blow."
"Spanish","Better lose a supper than have a hundred physicians."
"Spanish","An ass with her colt goes not straight to the mill."
"Spanish","As the abbot sings the sacristan responds."
"Spanish","Always taking out and never putting in, soon reaches the bottom."
"Spanish","All's not lost that's in danger."
"Spanish","All's lost that's put in a riven dish."
"Spanish","All's for the best in the best of all possible worlds."
"Spanish","All things of this world are nothing, unless they have reference to the next."
"Spanish","All is not lost that is in danger."
"Spanish","All is fair in love and war."
"Spanish","All in the way of joke the wolf goes to the ass."
"Spanish","All do not beg for one saint."
"Spanish","Alas! father, another daughter is born to you."
"Spanish","After the vintage, baskets."
"Spanish","After the house is finished, he deserts it."
"Spanish","After stuffing pears within, drink old wine until they swim."
"Spanish","An inch in a sword, or a palm in a lance, is a great advantage."
"Spanish","Bachelor, a peacock; betrothed, a lion; married, an ass."
"Spanish","Do not throw pearls to swine."
"Spanish","Better is rule than rent."
"Spanish","Better go about than be drowned."
"Spanish","Better be the head of a rat than the tail of a lion."
"Spanish","Beggars must not be choosers."
"Spanish","Before you marry, have a house to live in, fields to till, and vines to cut."
"Spanish","Before you marry, beware, for it is a knot difficult to untie."
"Spanish","Before the time, great courage; when at the point, great fear."
"Spanish","Be not an esquire where you were a page."
"Spanish","Be not a baker if your head is butter."
"Spanish","Be my enemy and go to my mill."
"Spanish","Be merry, Shrovetide, for to-morrow thou wilt be ashes."
"Spanish","Be a custom good or bad, a peasant will have it continue in force."
"Spanish","As long as I was a daughter-in-law I never had a good mother-in-law, and as long as I was a mother-in-law I never had a good daughter-in-law."
"Spanish","At the end the Gloria is chanted."
"Spanish","Better joy in a cottage than sorrow in a palace."
"Spanish","As the best wine makes the sharpest vinegar, so the deepest love turns to the deadliest hatred."
"Spanish","As the call, so the echo."
"Spanish","Ask not after a good man's pedigree."
"Spanish","Ask too much to get enough."
"Spanish","Bargains are dear."
"Spanish","At an auction keep your mouth shut."
"Spanish","Bad news is always true."
"Spanish","At the wedding-feast the least eater is the bride."
"Spanish","Attack is the best form of defence."
"Spanish","Attack is the best form of defense."
"Spanish","Avoid a friend who covers you with his wings and destroys you with his beak."
"Spanish","Away with thee, sickness, to where they make a good pillow for thee."
"Spanish","As mony heads, as mony wits."
"Spanish","At an ambuscade of villains a man does better with his feet than his hands."
"Spanish","There is no better patch than one off the same cloth."
"Spanish","There is truth in wine."
"Spanish","The wrong doer is never without a pretext."
"Spanish","There are all honest men, but my cloak is not to be found."
"Spanish","There are eyes that fall in love with bleared ones."
"Spanish","There are more threatened than hurt."
"Spanish","There is little use in watching a bad woman."
"Spanish","There is luck in leisure."
"Spanish","There is luck in odd numbers."
"Spanish","There is measure in all things."
"Spanish","There is mony a true tale tauld in jest."
"Spanish","There is never a great dunghill at a sportsman's door."
"Spanish","The worst of a lawsuit is that out of one there grow a hundred."
"Spanish","There is no beast so savage but sports with its mate."
"Spanish","The worst ewe dungs in the milking-pail."
"Spanish","There is no choicer morsel than that which is stolen."
"Spanish","There is no disinterested gift."
"Spanish","There is no lock, if the pick is of gold."
"Spanish","There is no mother like the mother that bore us."
"Spanish","There is no pleasure but palls, and the more so if it costs nothing."
"Spanish","There is no pot so ugly but finds its cover."
"Spanish","There is no such witness as a good measure of wine."
"Spanish","There is no tax upon lying."
"Spanish","There is no thief without a receiver."
"Spanish","There is no worse apprentice than the one who doesn't want to know."
"Spanish","There is not a pair of ears for every Jew."
"Spanish","The squeaking wheel gets the grease."
"Spanish","There is no answer for God out of my house, and What have you to do with my wife?"
"Spanish","The wedding feast is not made with mushrooms only."
"Spanish","The day you marry 'tis either kill or cure."
"Spanish","The stew that boils much loses flavour."
"Spanish","The stone is hard and the drop is small, but a hole is made by the constant fall."
"Spanish","The thorn comes into the world point foremost."
"Spanish","The thread breaks where it is thinnest."
"Spanish","The threatener loses the opportunity of vengeance."
"Spanish","The threshold says nothing but what it hears of the hinge."
"Spanish","The tide will fetch away what the ebb brings."
"Spanish","The tiger that has once tasted blood is never sated with the taste of it."
"Spanish","The tired ox plants his foot firmly."
"Spanish","The tongue of a bad friend cuts more than a knife."
"Spanish","The worst pig gets the best acorn."
"Spanish","The wages of sin is death."
"Spanish","There would be no ill word if it were not ill taken."
"Spanish","The well-bred hound, if he does not hunt to-day will hunt to-morrow."
"Spanish","The well-dressed woman draws her husband away from another woman's door."
"Spanish","The well-fed sheep makes a cloak of its tail."
"Spanish","The winter is gone, the spring is come, a fly for those who us good have done."
"Spanish","The wise hand does not all that the tongue says."
"Spanish","The wise knows that he does not know; the ignoramus thinks he knows."
"Spanish","The wolf and the fox are both in one story."
"Spanish","The wolf changes his teeth but not his disposition."
"Spanish","The wolf commits no mischief at home."
"Spanish","The wolf does that in the course of the week which hinders him from going to mass on Sunday."
"Spanish","The wolf picks up the ass's fleas by moonlight."
"Spanish","The woman in finery, the house in filth, but the doorway swept."
"Spanish","The voice of the people is the voice of God."
"Spanish","Let there be writing before you pay, and receipt before you write."
"Spanish","There is some distance between Peter and Peter."
"Spanish","To a son-in-law and a hog you need show the way but once."
"Spanish","To a woman and a magpie tell your secrets in the marketplace."
"Spanish","To be a merchant, the art consists more in getting paid than in making sales."
"Spanish","To be like the esquire of Guadalaxara, who knew nothing in the morning of what he said at night."
"Spanish","To be like the tailor of Campillo, who worked for nothing, and found thread."
"Spanish","To beards with money cavaliers pay respect."
"Spanish","To change one's mind is rather a sign of prudence than ignorance."
"Spanish","To err is human, to forgive divine."
"Spanish","To every evil doer his evil day."
"Spanish","To find oneself in tight breeches. (Ill at ease--we say in tight boots.)"
"Spanish","To a hard knot a hard wedge."
"Spanish","To forget a wrong is the best revenge."
"Spanish","To a depraved taste sweet is bitter."
"Spanish","To him that watches, everything is revealed."
"Spanish","To him who gives you a capon you may spare a leg and a wing."
"Spanish","To love and be wise is impossible."
"Spanish","To mad words deaf ears."
"Spanish","To own is to fear. [Sp., Tener es temer.]"
"Spanish","To swim and swim more, and be drowned on shore."
"Spanish","To take ambition from a soldier, is to rob him of his spurs."
"Spanish","To the bold man fortune gives her hand."
"Spanish","To the good listener, half a word is enough."
"Spanish","To the grateful man give more than he asks."
"Spanish","To your son give a good name and a trade."
"Spanish","To-morrow will be another day."
"Spanish","He who loves well, obeys well."
"Spanish","Though you see me with this coat, I have another up the mountain."
"Spanish","There's no argument like that of the stick."
"Spanish","There's no making a good cloak of bad cloth."
"Spanish","They may whip me in the market-place, so it be not known at home."
"Spanish","They took away the mirror from me because I was ugly, and gave it to the blind woman."
"Spanish","They turn night into day."
"Spanish","They two agreed like two cats in a gutter."
"Spanish","They whip the cat, if our mistress does not spin."
"Spanish","They who don't keep goats and yet sell kids, where do they get them?"
"Spanish","They who don't kill pigs must not expect black-puddings."
"Spanish","This is the milkmaid's tale."
"Spanish","Though my father-in-law is a good man, I do not like a dog with a bell."
"Spanish","To a hasty demand a leisure reply."
"Spanish","Though you are a prudent old man, do not despise counsel."
"Spanish","The spot will come out in the washing."
"Spanish","Though your bloodhound be gentle, don't bite him on the lip."
"Spanish","Threatened men eat bread."
"Spanish","Threatened men live long."
"Spanish","Three daughters and their mother, four devils for the father."
"Spanish","Three men helping one another will do as much as six men singly."
"Spanish","Three Spaniards, four opinions."
"Spanish","Three strikes and you are out."
"Spanish","Three things are not to be trusted; a cow's horn, a dog's tooth, and a horse's hoof."
"Spanish","Three things kill a man: a scorching son, suppers, and cares."
"Spanish","Three things must epigrams, like bees, have all, A sting, and honey, and a body small."
"Spanish","Three who held each other are as good as six."
"Spanish","Through not spending enough we spend too much."
"Spanish","Though the speaker be a fool, let the hearer be wise."
"Spanish","The heart is no traitor."
"Spanish","The leader follows in front."
"Spanish","The full-fed cow makes company of her tail."
"Spanish","The gallows takes its own."
"Spanish","The gardener's dog, neither full nor hungry."
"Spanish","The gardener's feet do no harm to the garden."
"Spanish","The gentle lamb sucks any ewe as well as its mother; the surly lamb sucks neither its own nor another."
"Spanish","The girl as she is taught, the flax as it is wrought."
"Spanish","The glass-dealer's horses fell out, and he looked on to see which kicked hardest."
"Spanish","The golden ass passes everywhere."
"Spanish","The gossips fall out and tell each other truths."
"Spanish","The green burns for the dry, and the righteous pay for sinners."
"Spanish","The fox that tarries long is on the watch for prey."
"Spanish","The gutter by dropping wears the stone."
"Spanish","The fox knows well with whom he plays tricks."
"Spanish","The hen lays upon an egg."
"Spanish","The honest man enjoys the theft."
"Spanish","The horse thinks one thing, and his rider another."
"Spanish","The horseshoe that clatters wants a nail."
"Spanish","The hunchback does not see his own hump, but sees his companion's."
"Spanish","The Jew ruins himself with passovers, the Moor with wedding feasts, and the Christian with lawsuits."
"Spanish","The keys at the girdle, the dog in the larder."
"Spanish","The king goes as far as he can, not so far as he would."
"Spanish","The king likes the treachery, but not the traitor."
"Spanish","The kite's malady, its wings broken and its beak sound."
"Spanish","The land a man knows is his mother."
"Spanish","The stew mixed by many is ill-seasoned and worse cooked."
"Spanish","The grey mare is the better horse."
"Spanish","The exception which proves the rule."
"Spanish","The dearest child of all is the dead one."
"Spanish","The deceived sheep that went for wool and came back shorn."
"Spanish","The devil gets into the belfry by the vicar's skirts."
"Spanish","The devil is so fond of his son that he put out his eye."
"Spanish","The dog that has its bitch in town never barks well."
"Spanish","The dress does not make the friar."
"Spanish","The drowning man is not troubled by rain."
"Spanish","The drunkard and the glutton come to poverty, and drowsiness clothes a man with rags."
"Spanish","The earth hides as it takes, the physician's mistakes."
"Spanish","The envious man's face grows sharp and his eyes big."
"Spanish","The epicure puts his purse into his belly."
"Spanish","The friar who begs for God begs for two."
"Spanish","The exception proves the rule."
"Spanish","The lean dog is all fleas."
"Spanish","The father of a saint, the son of a sinner."
"Spanish","The fault is as great as he that commits it."
"Spanish","The fertile field becomes sterile without rest."
"Spanish","The fierce ox becomes tame on strange ground."
"Spanish","The fire well knows whose cloak burns."
"Spanish","The first drink with water, the second without water, the third like water."
"Spanish","The first duty of a soldier is obedience."
"Spanish","The first faults are theirs that commit them, the second theirs that permit them."
"Spanish","The first wife is a broom, and the second a lady."
"Spanish","The fist loss is the best."
"Spanish","The fox does not do as much mischief in a year as it pays for in an hour."
"Spanish","The fox is knowing, but more knowing he who catches him."
"Spanish","The evil which issues from thy mouth falls into thy bosom."
"Spanish","The rich man transgresses the law, and the poor man is punished."
"Spanish","The lazy servant to save one step takes eight."
"Spanish","The old wife, if she does not serve for a pot, serves for a cover."
"Spanish","The one-eyed man is a king in the country of the blind."
"Spanish","The ox comes to the yoke at the call of his feeder."
"Spanish","The ox spoke and said ""Moo."""
"Spanish","The ox that butted me tossed me into a good place."
"Spanish","The ox without a bell is soon lost."
"Spanish","The paunch warm, the foot sleepy."
"Spanish","The pitcher goes so often to the well, that it leaves its handle or its mouth."
"Spanish","The poor man has his crop destroyed by hail every year."
"Spanish","The poor-houses are filled with the honestest people."
"Spanish","The official who can't lie may as well be out of the world."
"Spanish","The rat that knows but one hole is soon caught by the cat."
"Spanish","The obscure we see eventually. The completely apparent takes longer."
"Spanish","The righteous man sins before an open chest."
"Spanish","the rotten apple spoils its companion."
"Spanish","The scalded cat dreads cold water."
"Spanish","The secret in swimming is to know how to take care of your clothes."
"Spanish","The secret of patience is doing something else in the meantime."
"Spanish","The servant wench that has a mother in town swoons seven times a day."
"Spanish","The sharper soon cheats the covetous man."
"Spanish","The sharper the storm, the sooner it's over."
"Spanish","The shirt is nearer than the frock."
"Spanish","The smith's dog sleeps at the noise of the hammer, and wakes at the grinding of teeth."
"Spanish","The son of an ass brays twice a day."
"Spanish","The spider's web lets the rat escape and catches the fly."
"Spanish","The rat that has but one hole is soon caught."
"Spanish","The more you get the more you want."
"Spanish","The letter enters with blood."
"Spanish","The liar is sooner caught than the cripple."
"Spanish","The lion is not so fierce as he is painted."
"Spanish","The lion's not half so fierce as he's painted."
"Spanish","The magistrate's son gets out of every scrape."
"Spanish","The mare's kicks are caresses to the horse."
"Spanish","The master's foot is manure for the estate."
"Spanish","The mill gains by gong, and not by standing still."
"Spanish","The month loses its own, but not the year."
"Spanish","The more a woman admires her face, the more she ruins her house."
"Spanish","The more one has the more one wants."
"Spanish","The old man at home, and the young abroad, lie after the same fashion."
"Spanish","The more you court a clown the statelier he grows."
"Spanish","Tomorrow is often the busiest day of the week."
"Spanish","The most cautious passes for the most chaste."
"Spanish","The Mother of God appears to fools."
"Spanish","The mother of mischief is no bigger than a midge's wing."
"Spanish","The mother reckons well, but the child reckons better."
"Spanish","The mother who spoils her child, fattens a serpent."
"Spanish","The mother-in-law must be entreated, and the pot must be let stand."
"Spanish","The mountain labored and brought forth a mouse."
"Spanish","The mouse that knows but one hole is soon caught by the cat."
"Spanish","The mouse that only trusts to one poor hole, Can never be a mouse of any soul."
"Spanish","The mouth and the purse, shut."
"Spanish","The mouth that says yes says no."
"Spanish","The oaths of one who loves a woman are not to be believed."
"Spanish","The more riches a fool hath, the greater fool he is."
"Spanish","Who has time yet waits for time, comes to a time of repentance."
"Spanish","Whom the gods love die young."
"Spanish","Wherever you may be, do as you see done."
"Spanish","Wherries must not put out to sea."
"Spanish","Whether it be so or not, husband, put on your hood. (He had told her there was a new law that every man with horns should wear a hood.)"
"Spanish","Whether the pitcher strike the stone, or the stone the pitcher, woe be to the pitcher."
"Spanish","Whether you boil snow or pound it you can have but water of it."
"Spanish","Whether you ignore a pig, or worship that pig from afar, to the pig it's all the same."
"Spanish","White hands are no offence."
"Spanish","Whither goest thou, sorrow? Whither I am used to go."
"Spanish","Whither shall the ox go, where he will not have to plough?"
"Spanish","Who arrays himself in other men's garments is stripped on the highway."
"Spanish","Where you think there is bacon, there are not even hooks for it."
"Spanish","Who has no bread to spare should not keep a dog."
"Spanish","Where you smart there I will hit you."
"Spanish","Who is always prying into other men's affairs, leads a dangerous life."
"Spanish","Who is to bell the cat?"
"Spanish","Who is to carry the cat to the water?"
"Spanish","Who is well seated, let him not budge."
"Spanish","Who is your enemy? A man of your own trade."
"Spanish","Who lends recovers not; or if he recovers, recovers not all; or if not all, not much; of if much, a mortal enemy."
"Spanish","Who talks much, errs much."
"Spanish","Who ventures nothing has no luck."
"Spanish","Who wings, drives away care."
"Spanish","Whoever falls sick of folly, is long in getting cured."
"Spanish","Whoever gossips to you will gossip about you."
"Spanish","To-morrow's remedy will not ward off the evil of to-day."
"Spanish","Who gives what he has before he is dead, take a mallet and knock that fool on the head."
"Spanish","Where man is not, nature is barren."
"Spanish","When you are an anvil, bear; when you are a hammer, strike."
"Spanish","When you are at Rome do as Rome does."
"Spanish","When you are on the road speak not ill of your enemy."
"Spanish","When you can't get bread, oat-cakes are not amiss."
"Spanish","When you can't get meat, chickens and bacon are good."
"Spanish","When you die, your trumpeter will be buried."
"Spanish","When you eat new bread, don't drink water."
"Spanish","When you go to a strange house knock at the door."
"Spanish","Where force prevails, right perishes."
"Spanish","Where friars abound keep your eyes open."
"Spanish","Where God has his church the Devil will have his chapel."
"Spanish","Wherever you are, do as you see done."
"Spanish","Where MacGregor sits at the head of the table."
"Spanish","Whom the gods would destroy, they first make mad."
"Spanish","Where one door is shut another opens."
"Spanish","Where one door shuts another opens."
"Spanish","Where shall the ox go and not plough?"
"Spanish","Where the goat leaps, leaps that which sucks her."
"Spanish","Where the heart is past hope, the face is past shame."
"Spanish","Where the sea goes let the sands go."
"Spanish","Where there is love, there is pain."
"Spanish","Where there is no want of will, there will be no want of opportunity."
"Spanish","Where there's fire there's smoke."
"Spanish","Where they eat your meat let them pick the bones."
"Spanish","Where you father has been with ink, go not you with a bag (i.e. what your father has sold and assigned, think not to recover with a bag of papers. In other words, don't go to law for it."
"Spanish","Where you lost your cloak, seek it."
"Spanish","Where luck is wanting, diligence is useless."
"Spanish","If three people say you are an ass, put on a bridle."
"Spanish","Whom God loves, his bitch litters pigs."
"Spanish","Don't offer me advice; give me money"
"Spanish","Don't speak unless you can improve on the silence."
"Spanish","Drink nothing without seeing it; Sign nothing without reading it."
"Spanish","Every man is a fool in some man's opinion."
"Spanish","The first drink with water, the second without water, the third like water."
"Spanish","From a fallen tree, all make kindling."
"Spanish","Good men must die, but death cannot kill their names."
"Spanish","He who denies all confesses all."
"Spanish","He who says what he likes, hears what he does not like."
"Spanish","He who steals once is always a thief."
"Spanish","Your cracked jug seems better to me than my sound one."
"Spanish","He will never worship well the image on the altar who knew it when it was a trunk of wood in the garden."
"Spanish","You want better bread than wheaten."
"Spanish","If you would live healthy, be old early."
"Spanish","If you would be pope, you must think of nothing else."
"Spanish","Live with wolves, and you learn to howl."
"Spanish","Never advise anyone to go to war or to marry."
"Spanish","One drink is just right; two is too many; three are too few."
"Spanish","A peasant between two lawyers is like a fish between two cats."
"Spanish","Since we cannot get what we like, let us like what we can get."
"Spanish","To the good listener, half a word is enough."
"Spanish","Two cannot fall out if one does not choose."
"Spanish","When fire and water are at war, it is the fire that loses."
"Spanish","You can't make pancakes without breaking eggs."
"Spanish","Where there is love, there is pain."
"Spanish","He who would bring home the wealth of the Indies must carry the wealth of the Indies with him."
"Spanish","Women, wind, and fortune, soon change."
"Spanish","Whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth."
"Spanish","Whoredom and thieving are never long concealed."
"Spanish","Win a game of your friend, and drink the money on the spot."
"Spanish","Wipe your eye with your elbow."
"Spanish","Wit without discretion is a sword in the hand of a fool."
"Spanish","Wit's never bought till it's paid for."
"Spanish","With a little wrong a man comes by his right."
"Spanish","With a staircase before you, you look for a rope to go down by."
"Spanish","With bread and wine you can walk your road."
"Spanish","With lightning and with love, the clothes sound, the heart burned."
"Spanish","With money you would not know yourself, without money nobody would know you."
"Spanish","Debts are like children: the smaller they are the more noise they make."
"Spanish","Woe to the mule that sees not her master."
"Spanish","When thou seest thy house in flames, go warm thyself by it."
"Spanish","Words will not do for my aunt, for she does not put faith even in deeds."
"Spanish","Wounds from the knife are healed, but not those from the tongue."
"Spanish","Wounds heal, but not ill words."
"Spanish","Wounds pain most when grown cool."
"Spanish","Yesterday a cowherd, to-day a cavalier."
"Spanish","You can't have more bed-bugs than a blanket-full."
"Spanish","You can't make pancakes without breaking eggs."
"Spanish","You have broken my head and now you bring plaister."
"Spanish","You have debts, and make debts still; if you've not lied, lie you will."
"Spanish","You notice what I drink, and not the thirst I feel."
"Spanish","You surrender your freedom where you deposit your secret."
"Spanish","You used to be a baker, though now you wear gloves."
"Spanish","Woe to the house where the hen crows and the rooster is still."
"Spanish","Were you at the wedding, Molly? No, mother, but the bride was very fine."
"Spanish","When we think to catch we are sometimes caught."
"Spanish","Walk until the blood appears on the cheek, but not the sweat on the brow."
"Spanish","War with all the world, and peace with England."
"Spanish","Water for oxen, wine for kings."
"Spanish","We are as the king, only not as rich."
"Spanish","We are both carriers, and shall meet on the road."
"Spanish","We are not roasting, and already we are basting."
"Spanish","We are not yet roasting, and already we make sops in the pan."
"Spanish","We do not know what is good until we have lost it."
"Spanish","We have no son, and yet are giving him a name."
"Spanish","We have not yet saddled, and are already mounted."
"Spanish","Vainglory blossoms, and bears no fruit."
"Spanish","Welcome, misfortune, if you come alone."
"Spanish","Under the sackcloth there is something hid."
"Spanish","What children hear their parents say by the fireside they repeat in the highway."
"Spanish","What Christ does not take the exchequer takes."
"Spanish","What cures Sancho makes Martha sick."
"Spanish","What does not happen in a year may happen in a moment."
"Spanish","What force cannot do ingenuity may."
"Spanish","What I see with my eyes I can guess with my fingers."
"Spanish","What is another's always pines for its master."
"Spanish","What is done, is done for this time."
"Spanish","What is in use, wants no excuse."
"Spanish","What is mine is my own; my brother Juan's is his and mine."
"Spanish","What is new cannot be true."
"Spanish","What is whispered in your ear tell not to your husband."
"Spanish","Weight and measure save a man toil."
"Spanish","Two can play at that game."
"Spanish","To flee and to run are not all one."
"Spanish","Tomorrow is the busiest day of the year."
"Spanish","Too much breaks the bag."
"Spanish","Tripe broth, you make much of yourself."
"Spanish","True love suffers no concealment."
"Spanish","Trust in God upon good security."
"Spanish","Trust not your gossip to a priest who has been a friar."
"Spanish","Trust not your money to one whose eyes are bent on the ground."
"Spanish","Truth, like oil, always comes to the surface."
"Spanish","Truths and roses have thorns about them."
"Spanish","Two birds of prey do not keep each other company."
"Spanish","Walk till the blood appears on the cheek, but not the sweat on the brow."
"Spanish","Two boys are half a boy, and three boys are no boy at all."
"Spanish","What my neighbour eats does my stomach no good."
"Spanish","Two cannot fall out if one does not choose."
"Spanish","Two false men to one traitor."
"Spanish","Two great talkers will not travel far together."
"Spanish","Two of a trade can never agree."
"Spanish","Two of a trade never agree."
"Spanish","Two sparrows on one ear of corn never agree."
"Spanish","Under a bad cloak there is a good tippler."
"Spanish","Under a gold sheath a leaden knife."
"Spanish","Under a good cloak may be a bad man."
"Spanish","Under a tattered cloak you will generally find a good drinker."
"Spanish","Under my cloak I command the king."
"Spanish","Under my cloak I kill the king."
"Spanish","Two blacks don't make a white."
"Spanish","When the iron is hot, then is the time to strike."
"Spanish","When our daughter is married sons-in-law are plenty."
"Spanish","When our enemy flies, build him a golden bridge."
"Spanish","When passion entereth at the fore-gate wisdom goes out at the postern."
"Spanish","When poor, liberal; when rich, stingy."
"Spanish","When the bee sucks, it makes honey, when the spider, poison."
"Spanish","When the cat's away the rats will play."
"Spanish","When the child cuts its teeth, death is on the watch."
"Spanish","When the corsair promises masses and candles, it goes ill with the galley."
"Spanish","When the devil says his prayers he wants to cheat you."
"Spanish","When the Devil was sick the Devil a monk would be, When the Devil got well, the devil a monk was he."
"Spanish","When the fields yield not, the saints have not."
"Spanish","What much is worth comes from the earth."
"Spanish","When the fool has made up his mind the market is over."
"Spanish","When one door shuts, a hundred open."
"Spanish","When the prior plays cards, what will the monks do?"
"Spanish","When the river makes no noise, it is either dried up or much swollen."
"Spanish","When the Spaniard sings, he is either mad or has no money."
"Spanish","When the spleen increases, the body diminishes."
"Spanish","When the steed is stolen, you shut the stable door."
"Spanish","When the summer is winter, and the winter is summer, it is a sorry year."
"Spanish","When there are two friends to one purse, one sings, the other weeps."
"Spanish","When they give you the calf, be ready with the halter."
"Spanish","When they offer you a ring, hold out your finger."
"Spanish","When thieves fall out the thefts come to light."
"Spanish","When thieves fall out, honest men come by their own."
"Spanish","Today is yesterday's pupil."
"Spanish","When the flatterer pipes, the devil dances."
"Spanish","When drink enters, wisdom departs."
"Spanish","When we ask a favour, we say, Madam; when we obtain it, what we please."
"Spanish","What one does, one becomes."
"Spanish","What the abbot of Bamba cannot eat he gives away for the good of his soul."
"Spanish","What three know, everybody knows."
"Spanish","What you dislike for yourself do not like for me."
"Spanish","What's everybody's business is nobody's business."
"Spanish","Whatever way you take there is a league of bad road."
"Spanish","When a fool has made up his mind the market has gone by."
"Spanish","When a fox is in his hole, the smoke fetches him out."
"Spanish","When a good offer comes for your daughter, don't wait till her father returns from market."
"Spanish","When a goose dances, and a fool versifies, there is sport."
"Spanish","When a man is not used to breeches the seams gall him."
"Spanish","When one wolf eats another, thee is nothing to eat in the wood."
"Spanish","When an old man cannot drink, prepare his grave."
"Spanish","When one door shuts, another opens."
"Spanish","When every one says you are an ass, bray."
"Spanish","When fire and water are at war, it is the fire that loses."
"Spanish","When flatterers meet the devil goes to dinner."
"Spanish","When God gives light he gives it for all."
"Spanish","When God pleases, it rains in fair weather."
"Spanish","When I was born I wept, and every day brings a reason why."
"Spanish","When ill-luck sleeps, let no one wake her."
"Spanish","When it rains in August, it rains honey and wine."
"Spanish","When it rains in February, it will be temperate all the year."
"Spanish","When love is not madness, it is not love. [Sp., Cuando amor no es locura, no es amor.]"
"Spanish","When misfortune sleeps, let no one wake her."
"Spanish","What must be, must be."
"Spanish","When a peasant gets rich, he knows neither relations nor friends."
"Spanish","It is not the hook or the rod, but the bait that lures."
"Spanish","Jest so that it may not turn to earnest."
"Spanish","It is better to be a mouse in a cat's mouth than a man in a lawyer's hands."
"Spanish","It is better to leap over the ditch than trust to the pleadings of good men."
"Spanish","It is better to lose than lose more."
"Spanish","It is better to strive with a stubborn ass than to carry the wood on one's back."
"Spanish","It is better to travel hopefully than to arrive."
"Spanish","It is better to weep with wise men than to laugh with fools."
"Spanish","It is courage that vanquishes in war, and not good weapons."
"Spanish","It is fair and just to cheat the cheater."
"Spanish","It is in putting it into the oven that the loaf is made crooked."
"Spanish","It is in vain to cast nets in a river where there are no fish."
"Spanish","It is a loss of soap to wash the ass's head."
"Spanish","It is not the fine, but the coarse and ill-spun that breaks."
"Spanish","It is a bad hen that eats at your house and lays at another's."
"Spanish","It is not the load but the overload that kills."
"Spanish","It is not the same thing to talk of bulls as to be in the bullring."
"Spanish","It is nothing, they are only thrashing my husband."
"Spanish","It is the bait that lures, not the fisherman or the rod."
"Spanish","It is very savoury to eat scot free."
"Spanish","It little avails the unfortunate to be brave."
"Spanish","It will all come out in the soap-suds."
"Spanish","It's better to arrive on time than to be invited."
"Spanish","It's dogged as does it."
"Spanish","It's enough to make a parson swear, or a quaker kick his mother."
"Spanish","It's not the same to talk of bulls as to be in the bullring."
"Spanish","Manual play, clown's play."
"Spanish","It is not necessary to fall into a well to know its depth."
"Spanish","In a smith's house the knife is wooden."
"Spanish","If you want to know what a ducat is worth, try to borrow one."
"Spanish","If you want to know what a man is really like, notice how he acts when he loses money."
"Spanish","If you want to live and thrive, let the spider run alive."
"Spanish","If you want to make God laugh, tell him your plans."
"Spanish","If you want to thrash your wife, ask her for a drink of water in the sun."
"Spanish","If you wish to be well served, serve yourself."
"Spanish","If you would acquire fame, let not the sun shine on you in bed."
"Spanish","If you would be pope, you must think of nothing else."
"Spanish","If you would be well served, serve yourself."
"Spanish","If you would live healthy, be old early."
"Spanish","If you would make a thief honest, trust him."
"Spanish","It is a wise son that knows his own father."
"Spanish","Ill-luck upon ill-luck, and a stone for a pillow."
"Spanish","Jesting costs money."
"Spanish","In a wood don't walk behind another."
"Spanish","In hunting and in love you begin when you like and leave off when you can."
"Spanish","In less than a thousand years we shall all be bald."
"Spanish","In my own house I am a king."
"Spanish","In the bagpiper's house they are all dancers."
"Spanish","In the garden more grows, than the gardener sows."
"Spanish","In the report, of riches and goodness always bate one half."
"Spanish","In the rich woman's house she always commands; he never."
"Spanish","Ingratitude is the daughter of pride."
"Spanish","Invite your son-in-law to a fowl, and he will take away the lemon."
"Spanish","It fares ill with the house where the spinning-wheel commands the sword."
"Spanish","It goes ill in the house where the hen sings and the cock is silent."
"Spanish","Ill luck enters by fathoms and departs by inches."
"Spanish","Lose no rights, and commit no extortions."
"Spanish","It's not worth crying over spilt milk."
"Spanish","Like Banbury tinkers that in mending one hole make three."
"Spanish","Lip courtesy avails much and costs little."
"Spanish","Listeners hear no good of themselves."
"Spanish","Listeners never hear any good of themselves."
"Spanish","Little and often fills the purse."
"Spanish","Little beard, little modesty."
"Spanish","Little bird, little nest."
"Spanish","Little birds may pick a dead lion."
"Spanish","Little birds that can sing and won't sing must be made to sing."
"Spanish","Little by little one goes far."
"Spanish","Like a collier's sack, bad without and worse within."
"Spanish","Long life to the conqueror."
"Spanish","Woe to the house where the hen crows and the rooster is still."
"Spanish","Losers are always in the wrong."
"Spanish","Love is like war, begin when you like and leave off when you can."
"Spanish","Love one that does not love you, answer one that does not call you, and you will run a fruitless race."
"Spanish","Love, grief, and money cannot be kept secret."
"Spanish","Lovers think that others have no eyes."
"Spanish","Luck comes to those who look after it."
"Spanish","He who strives to do, does more than he who has the power."
"Spanish","Mad love--I for you, and you for another."
"Spanish","Make good flour, and do not blow the trumpet."
"Spanish","Make way for a madman and a bull."
"Spanish","Make your bargain before beginning to plow."
"Spanish","Manana is often the busiest day of the week."
"Spanish","Live with wolves, and you learn to howl."
"Spanish","Let it be a husband, though it be but a log."
"Spanish","Justice, but not in my own house."
"Spanish","Kill and thou wilt be killed, and he will be killed who kills thee."
"Spanish","Know, cabbages, that there is spinach in the stew."
"Spanish","Large thongs of another man's leather."
"Spanish","Laws go the way kings direct."
"Spanish","Laws, like the spider's webs, catch the flies and let the hawk go free."
"Spanish","Leave the jest at its best."
"Spanish","Let every sheep hang by it own foot."
"Spanish","Let every tub stand on its own bottom."
"Spanish","Let him not complain of being cheated who buys cloth by the pattern."
"Spanish","Let him play the instrument who knows how."
"Spanish","Like a parakeet that says what he knows but doesn't know what he says."
"Spanish","Let him who does not know you buy you."
"Spanish","If you want to be revenged, hold your tongue."
"Spanish","Let no one say, ""Of this water I will not drink."""
"Spanish","Let no one take a pawn that eats."
"Spanish","Let no shovel-beaked bird ever enter your yard."
"Spanish","Let the dog bark so he don't bite me."
"Spanish","Let the miracle be wrought, though it be by the devil."
"Spanish","Let the sun shine on me, for I care not for the moon."
"Spanish","Let them be birds. (Small eggs make little soup.)"
"Spanish","Let them talk of men, and beg of me."
"Spanish","Let them whip me in the market-place, provided it be not known at home."
"Spanish","Let there be food in the pigeon-house, and the pigeons will come to it."
"Spanish","Let there be no lack of food in the pigeon-house, and the pigeons will come to it."
"Spanish","Let those pater nosters be for your own soul. (Ironical, against swearing.)"
"Spanish","Let him that has a mouth not say to another, Blow."
"Spanish","He who would thrive must follow the church, the sea, or the king's service."
"Spanish","If you want to know secrets, seek for them in trouble or in pleasure."
"Spanish","He who takes the wrong road must make his journey twice over."
"Spanish","He who talks much is sometimes right."
"Spanish","He who tells his own secret will hardly keep another's."
"Spanish","He who trifles with his enemy dies by his hand."
"Spanish","He who wants a mule without fault must walk on foot."
"Spanish","He who wants to be rich in a year comes to the gallows in half a year."
"Spanish","He who wants to catch fish must not mind a wetting."
"Spanish","He who wants to kill his dog only has to say he is mad."
"Spanish","He who was first an acolyte, and afterwards an abbot or curate, knows what the boys do behind the altar."
"Spanish","He who works on the highway will have many advisers."
"Spanish","He who stumbles and does not fall mends his pace."
"Spanish","He who would take must give."
"Spanish","He who made fun of the old man, laughed at first and cried afterwards."
"Spanish","He whose house is tiled with glass should not throw stones at his neighbour's."
"Spanish","He will never worship well the image on the altar who knew it when it was a trunk of wood in the garden."
"Spanish","Health and cheerfulness make beauty; finery and cosmetics cost money and lie."
"Spanish","Hear first, and speak afterwards."
"Spanish","Hear no evil, see no evil, speak no evil."
"Spanish","Him who errs, forgive once, but never twice."
"Spanish","His bread fell into the honey."
"Spanish","His courage oozed out at his fingers' ends."
"Spanish","Honey was not made for the mouth of the ass."
"Spanish","How shall the enemy of the bride speak well of the wedding?"
"Spanish","However bright the sun may shine, leave not you cloak at home."
"Spanish","However foul it be, never say, Of this water I will not drink."
"Spanish","He who would cheat the fox must rise early."
"Spanish","He who remains in the mill grinds, not he who goes to and fro."
"Spanish","He who steals once is never trusty."
"Spanish","He who spits above himself will have it fall on his face."
"Spanish","He who sows well, reaps well."
"Spanish","He who sows courtesy reaps friendship, and he who plants kindness gathers love."
"Spanish","He who sows brambles reaps thorns."
"Spanish","He who sows brambles must not go barefoot."
"Spanish","He who sleeps much, learns little."
"Spanish","He who serves many masters must neglect some of them."
"Spanish","He who serves is not free."
"Spanish","He who seeks, finds."
"Spanish","He who says what he likes, hears what he don't like."
"Spanish","He who stumbles twice over one stone deserves to break his shins."
"Spanish","He who rides behind another does not saddle when he will."
"Spanish","Hush, brideswoman, I knew all that before."
"Spanish","He who reforms, God assists."
"Spanish","He who receives the offerings let him ring the bells."
"Spanish","He who promises incurs a debt."
"Spanish","He who pours water hastily into a bottle spills more than goes in."
"Spanish","He who peeps through a hole will discover his dole."
"Spanish","He who measures oil greases his hands."
"Spanish","He who marrieth does well, but he who marrieth not, better."
"Spanish","He who marries ill, is long in becoming widowed."
"Spanish","To give is honour, to love is grief."
"Spanish","He who makes light of his enemy dies by his hand."
"Spanish","The day I did not sweep the house, there came to it one I did not expect."
"Spanish","He who makes a law should keep it."
"Spanish","He who saves, finds."
"Spanish","If they say you are good, ask you self if it be true."
"Spanish","If only I were a bird! Ah, but eating caterpillars?"
"Spanish","If people lead, the leaders will follow."
"Spanish","If the child cries let the mother hush it, and if it will not be hushed let it cry."
"Spanish","If the eyes don't see, the heart won't break."
"Spanish","If the mountain will not go to Mahomet, Mahomet must go to the mountain."
"Spanish","If the pitcher knocks against a stone, woe to the pitcher; and if the stone knocks against the pitcher, woe to the pitcher."
"Spanish","If the rings are lost, here are the fingers still."
"Spanish","If the sky falls there will be pots broken."
"Spanish","If the sky falls we shall catch larks."
"Spanish","If the sky falls, hold up your hands."
"Spanish","If there be no remedy, why worry?"
"Spanish","Hunger and cold give a man up to his enemy."
"Spanish","If there were no receivers, there would be no thieves."
"Spanish","If love be timid it is not true."
"Spanish","If this ball does not stick to the wall it will at least leave a mark."
"Spanish","If three people say you are an ass, put on a bridle."
"Spanish","If thy heart fail thee, why then climb at all?"
"Spanish","If you eat it up at supper, you cannot have it for breakfast."
"Spanish","If you have a friend who is a doctor, make your bow and send him to the house of your enemy."
"Spanish","If you listen at a hole, you will hear ill of yourself as well as others."
"Spanish","If you love me, John, your acts will tell me so."
"Spanish","If you pay what you owe, what you're worth you'll know."
"Spanish","If you play with fire you get burnt."
"Spanish","If you want to be dead, wash your head and go to bed."
"Spanish","If you want to be respected, you must respect yourself."
"Spanish","Make a bridge of silver for the flying enemy."
"Spanish","If there were no receiver there would be no thief."
"Spanish","I like not fair terms and a villain's mind."
"Spanish","If you want to beat a dog, say he eat your iron."
"Spanish","I a lazy lout, you a lazy lout, marry me, Antonia."
"Spanish","I am like you and you like me. the devil united us."
"Spanish","I am neither at the ford nor the bridge."
"Spanish","I broke my leg, perhaps for my good."
"Spanish","I dance to the tune that is played."
"Spanish","I do not tell thee what thou art, thou wilt tell it thyself."
"Spanish","I don't count them to you, wife, but a hog makes twelve puddings."
"Spanish","I don't want it, I don't want it, but put it into my hood."
"Spanish","I don't want the cheese; I just want out of the trap."
"Spanish","I have a good jacket in France."
"Spanish","I know well what I say when I ask for bread."
"Spanish","If one, two, three say you are an ass, put on a tail."
"Spanish","I left what I knew for what I heard praised, and repented."
"Spanish","If lying were a capital crime, the hangman would work overtime."
"Spanish","I mistress and you miss, who is to sweep the house?"
"Spanish","I neither give nor take, like a Jew on the Sabbath."
"Spanish","I never was satisfied with ""I will, I will."" One ""take this"" is better than two ""I will give you."""
"Spanish","I perfectly feel even at my fingers end."
"Spanish","I say it to you, daughter; hear it, daughter-in-law."
"Spanish","I stubborn and you stubborn, who is to carry the load?"
"Spanish","I thought I had no husband, and I eat up the stew."
"Spanish","I thought to cross myself, and I put out my eye."
"Spanish","I'll marry, and eat the prime of the pot, and sit down first."
"Spanish","If I am a fool, put your finger in my mouth."
"Spanish","If I die, I forgive you; if I live, we shall see."
"Spanish","Husband, don't see; wife, be blind."
"Spanish","I know what I know, but will say nothing about it."
"Spanish","Smoke, a dripping roof, and a scolding wife, are enough to drive a man out of his life."
"Spanish","Prison and Lent were made for the poor."
"Spanish","Short hose must have long points."
"Spanish","Shut your door, and you will make your neighbour a good woman."
"Spanish","Silence and look out, we shall catch both hen and chicks."
"Spanish","Silent water is dangerous water."
"Spanish","Silly sheep, where one goes, all go."
"Spanish","Since I wronged you, I have never liked you."
"Spanish","Since we cannot get what we like, let us like what we can get."
"Spanish","Since we have loaves let us not look for cakes."
"Spanish","Since you have scolding me, I have counted a hundred and twenty holes in that nutmeg grater."
"Spanish","Skilled hands eat trouts."
"Spanish","She who loves an ugly man thinks him handsome."
"Spanish","Sleep over it, and you will come to a resolution."
"Spanish","She is nether fish nor fowl."
"Spanish","So money gets money."
"Spanish","So wise, so young, they say, do ne'er live long."
"Spanish","So you tell me there are wolves on the mountain, and foxes in the valley."
"Spanish","So yourself be good, a fig for your grandfather."
"Spanish","Soft and fair goes far."
"Spanish","Some day Peter will command as much as his master."
"Spanish","Some go to law, for the wagging of a straw."
"Spanish","Some have the fame, and other card the wool."
"Spanish","Sour wine, old bacon, and rye bread keep a house rich."
"Spanish","Sow corn in clay, and plant vines in sand."
"Spanish","Sow dry and set wet."
"Spanish","Stealing would be a nice thing, if thieves were hanged by the girdle."
"Spanish","Sleep is the best cure for waking troubles."
"Spanish","See how he has risen from a mayor to a hangman."
"Spanish","Procrastination is the thief of time."
"Spanish","Prosperity forgets father and mother."
"Spanish","Put a beggar into your barn and he will make himself your heir."
"Spanish","Many kiss hands they would fain see chopped off."
"Spanish","Rats do not play tricks with kittens."
"Spanish","Lying and gossiping go hand in hand."
"Spanish","Right or wrong, God aid our purpose."
"Spanish","Right overstrained turns to wrong."
"Spanish","Rise early and watch, labour and catch."
"Spanish","Said the frying pay to the kettle, Stand off, black bottom."
"Spanish","Salt split is never all gathered."
"Spanish","Shoemakers go to mass and pray that sheep may die."
"Spanish","Seat yourself in your place and you will not be made to quit it."
"Spanish","Sugared words generally prove bitter."
"Spanish","See that you tie so that you can untie."
"Spanish","See, hear, and hold your tongue."
"Spanish","Sell publicly and buy privately."
"Spanish","Sense comes with age."
"Spanish","Serve a lord and you'll know what is grief."
"Spanish","Set a peasant on horseback, and he forgets both God and man."
"Spanish","Set a sprat to catch a mackerel."
"Spanish","Seven brothers in a council make wrong right."
"Spanish","Seven is company, and nine confusion. (Alluding to a dinner party.)"
"Spanish","She is fond of greens who kisses the gardener."
"Spanish","She is good and honoured who is dead and buried."
"Spanish","She is good who is close to the fire and does not burn."
"Spanish","Say before they say."
"Spanish","The bowels support the heart, and not the heart the bowels."
"Spanish","The ass knows well in whose face be brays."
"Spanish","The ass of many owners is food for wolves."
"Spanish","The bacon of paradise for the married man that does not repent."
"Spanish","The bad barber leaves neither hair nor skin."
"Spanish","The bad man always suspects knavery."
"Spanish","The bath has sworn not to whiten the blackamoor."
"Spanish","The beast that goes well is never without some one to try his paces."
"Spanish","The beginning of health is to know the disease."
"Spanish","The best cast at dice is not to play."
"Spanish","The best cloth has uneven threads."
"Spanish","The best cook drops a whole tomato."
"Spanish","Steel whets steel."
"Spanish","The bow that is always bent slackens or breaks."
"Spanish","The act of treachery is liked, but not he that does it."
"Spanish","The boy is father to the man."
"Spanish","The brain, that sows not corn, plants thistles."
"Spanish","The busy man is troubled with but one devil, the idle man by a thousand."
"Spanish","The buyer has need of a hundred eyes. the seller but one."
"Spanish","The cask full, the mother-in-law drunk."
"Spanish","The cask smells of the wine it contains."
"Spanish","The cat always leaves her mark upon her friend."
"Spanish","The cat is friendly, but scratches."
"Spanish","The church, the sea, or the royal household, for whoever would thrive."
"Spanish","The cross on his breast, and the devil in his acts."
"Spanish","The cross on his breast, and the devil in his heart."
"Spanish","The day I did not make my toilette, there came to my house one I did not expect."
"Spanish","The best feed of a horse is his master's eye."
"Spanish","Tell a lie, and you will bring out the truth."
"Spanish","Rather mulberry than almond. (The almond-tree is in blossom earlier than the mulberry.)"
"Spanish","Take away the motive, and the sin is taken away."
"Spanish","Take hold lightly; let go lightly. This is one of the great secrets of felicity in love."
"Spanish","Take hold of a good minute."
"Spanish","Take in laundry before you take in partners."
"Spanish","Take the middle of the way and thou wilt not fall."
"Spanish","Take the will for the deed."
"Spanish","Take what you want, then pay for it."
"Spanish","Taking out and not putting in soon reaches the bottom."
"Spanish","Talk as you go, husband, to the gallows."
"Spanish","Talk little and well, and you will be looked upon as somebody."
"Spanish","Talk much, and err much."
"Spanish","The ass dead, the barley at his tail."
"Spanish","Talking is easy, action difficult."
"Spanish","The ant gets wings that she may perish sooner."
"Spanish","Tell her she is handsome, and you will turn her head."
"Spanish","Tell it her once, and the devil will tell it her ten times."
"Spanish","Tell it well, or say nothing."
"Spanish","Tell me who you live with, and I will tell you who you are."
"Spanish","Tell not all you know, nor judge of all you see, if you would live in peace."
"Spanish","Tell your affairs in the market-place, and one will call them black and another white."
"Spanish","Tell your own story first."
"Spanish","That which covers thee discovers thee."
"Spanish","That which is cheap is dear."
"Spanish","The absent were never in the right."
"Spanish","The account is correct, but not a sixpense appears."
"Spanish","Such awkward things will happen as going into the great square and coming back without ears."
"Spanish","Talk of sporting, and buy game in the market."
"Spanish","No Jew a fool; no hare lazy."
"Spanish","Not the cry, but the flight of the wild duck, leads the flock to fly and follow."
"Spanish","Neither sign a paper without reading it, nor drink water without seeing it."
"Spanish","Never advise a man to go to the wars, or to marry."
"Spanish","Never advise anyone to go to war or to marry."
"Spanish","Never ask of him who has, but of him you know wishes you well."
"Spanish","Never ask pardon before you are accused."
"Spanish","Never put your thumbs between two grinders."
"Spanish","Never spread your corn to dry before the door of a saintly man."
"Spanish","New loves drive out the old."
"Spanish","New trappings to an old mule."
"Spanish","Night brings counsel."
"Spanish","Neither handsome enough to kill, nor ugly enough to frighten."
"Spanish","No fly gets into a shut mouth."
"Spanish","Neither a good friar for friend, nor a bad one for enemy."
"Spanish","No joy without alloy."
"Spanish","No king was ever a traitor, or pope excommunicated."
"Spanish","No man is quick enough to enjoy life to the full."
"Spanish","No one would be an innkeeper but for money."
"Spanish","No relation is poor."
"Spanish","Right or wrong, 'tis our house up to the roof."
"Spanish","No rogue like the godly rogue."
"Spanish","Pray to God, but hammer away."
"Spanish","No wonder if he breaks his head who stumbles twice over one stone."
"Spanish","Nobody sows a thing that will not sell."
"Spanish","Not all things have to be scrutinized, nor all friends tested, not all enemies exposed and denounced."
"Spanish","Not he gives who likes, but who has."
"Spanish","No flies light on a boiling pot."
"Spanish","Mother, what is marrying? Spinning, bearing children, and crying, daughter."
"Spanish","Mary Busybody never wants a bad day, and Mary Drone has God to give and bring to her."
"Spanish","May God not so prosper our friends that they forget us."
"Spanish","May the man be damned and never grow fat, Who wears two faces under one hat."
"Spanish","Michael is quits; he lost a ducat and gained a rabbit."
"Spanish","Miguel, Miguel, you have no bees, and yet sell honey."
"Spanish","Mildness governs more than anger."
"Spanish","Milk the cow that standeth still."
"Spanish","Money gets money."
"Spanish","Money soothes more than a gentleman's words."
"Spanish","Money turns bad into good."
"Spanish","Money will do more than my lord's letter."
"Spanish","Neither serve one who has been a servant, nor beg of one who has been a beggar."
"Spanish","Mother, marry me, marry me, or the gull will fly away with me."
"Spanish","No woman is ugly when she is dressed."
"Spanish","Much talking, much erring."
"Spanish","My daughter-in-law tucked up her sleeves, and upset the kettle into the fire."
"Spanish","My life and soul (are at your service), but not my pack-saddle."
"Spanish","My neighbour's goat gives more milk than mine."
"Spanish","My neighbour's hen lays more eggs than mine."
"Spanish","My sister's son is a kinsman beyond dispute."
"Spanish","My teeth are nearer than my kindred."
"Spanish","My word is my bond."
"Spanish","Nae man can baith sup an' blaw thegither."
"Spanish","Name not a rope in his house that hanged himself."
"Spanish","Needle and thread are half clothing."
"Spanish","Needs must when the devil drives."
"Spanish","Moses (i.e. a Jew) does not play because he has not the means."
"Spanish","Peace and patience, and death with penitence."
"Spanish","Pluck it from among the thistles, and we will take it off your hands."
"Spanish","Pound the garlic, Pedro, whilst I grate the cheese."
"Spanish","Praise yourself, basket, for I want to sell you."
"Spanish","Not to wish to recover is a mortal symptom."
"Spanish","Poverty is not a crime."
"Spanish","No revenge is more honourable than the one not taken."
"Spanish","Poverty is no sin."
"Spanish","Poverty is no sin, but it is a branch of roguery."
"Spanish","One's prog does not clog."
"Spanish","Order and do it, and you will be rid of anxiety."
"Spanish","Other folks' cares kill the ass."
"Spanish","Plough wet or dry, and you will not have to kiss your neighbour's breech."
"Spanish","Pay what you owe, and be cured of your complaint."
"Spanish","One wedding brings another."
"Spanish","Peralvillo justice: hang a man first and try him afterwards."
"Spanish","Poverty does not destroy virtue, nor does wealth bestow it."
"Spanish","Peter is so godly that God does not improve his condition."
"Spanish","Peter pinches me, and I like it."
"Spanish","Play with the fool at home, and he will play with you abroad."
"Spanish","Play's gude, while it is play."
"Spanish","Please the eye, and pick the purse."
"Spanish","Please your eye and plague your heart."
"Spanish","Plough deep and you will have plenty of corn."
"Spanish","Plough deep whilst sluggards sleep, And you shall have corn to sell and to keep."
"Spanish","Pour not water on a drowned mouse."
"Spanish","Plough or not plough, you must pay your rent."
"Spanish","Paper and ink and little justice."
"Spanish","One cannot blow and swallow at the same time."
"Spanish","Nothing is lost on a journey by stopping to pray or to feed your horse."
"Spanish","Now that I have an ewe and a lamb, every one says to me: Good morrow, Peter."
"Spanish","Nurse, you are mistress whilst the child sucks, and after that nothing."
"Spanish","Of brothers-in-law and red dogs few are good."
"Spanish","Of evils, the least."
"Spanish","Of other men's leather large thongs."
"Spanish","Of soups and loves the first are the best."
"Spanish","Of the malady a man fears, he dies."
"Spanish","Of your wife and your tried friend believe nothing but what you know for certain."
"Spanish","Old as is the boat it may cross the ferry once."
"Spanish","On a hot day muffle yourself more."
"Spanish","On a long journey even a straw weighs heavy."
"Spanish","Possession and good right, with lance in hand."
"Spanish","One bee is better than a thousand flies."
"Spanish","One wolf does not bite another."
"Spanish","One drink is just right; two is too many; three are too few."
"Spanish","One eye on the frying-pan and the other on the cat."
"Spanish","One falsehood leads to another."
"Spanish","One grievance borne, another follows."
"Spanish","One knavery is met by another."
"Spanish","One love drives out another."
"Spanish","One man beats the bush, another catcheth the bird."
"Spanish","One starts the game and another bags it."
"Spanish","One stroke on the nail and a hundred on the horseshoe."
"Spanish","One trick is met by another."
"Spanish","One volunteer is worth two pressed men."
"Spanish","On dry land even brackish water is good."
"Spanish","A child of a year old sucks milk from the heel."
"Spanish","A boaster and a liar are cousins."
"Spanish","A boy's love is water in a sieve."
"Spanish","A buffeting threatened is never well given."
"Spanish","A bully is always a coward."
"Spanish","A buxom widow must be married, buried, or cloistered."
"Spanish","A daily guest is a thief in the kitchen."
"Spanish","A change is as good as a rest."
"Spanish","A constant guest is never welcome."
"Spanish","A covetous abbot for one offering loses a hundred."
"Spanish","A cracked bell will never be sound."
"Spanish","A crazy vessel never falls from the hand."
"Spanish","A creaking door hangs longest."
"Spanish","Don't stop the way of a bull or of a current of air."
"Spanish","A capon eight months old is fit for a king's table."
"Spanish","Call me not olive before you see me gathered."
"Spanish","Cheese from the ewe, milk from the goat, butter from the cow."
"Spanish","Cheat me with the price, but not with the goods I buy."
"Spanish","Cheat me in the price and not in the goods."
"Spanish","Cheap things cost a lot of money."
"Spanish","Chastise one that is worthless, and he will presently hate you."
"Spanish","Charity well regulated begins at home."
"Spanish","Changing one's mind is more often a sign of prudence than of ignorance."
"Spanish","Carry bread in your hood to Don Garcia's wedding."
"Spanish","Coward against coward, the assailant conquers."
"Spanish","Call no man happy till he dies."
"Spanish","Chins without beards deserve no honor."
"Spanish","Call me not fortunate till you see me buried."
"Spanish","By the thread we unwind the skein."
"Spanish","By the street of ""By-and-By"" one arrives at the house of ""Never."""
"Spanish","By always taking out and never putting in, the bottom is soon reached."
"Spanish","Buy from people who are desperate, and sell to newlyweds."
"Spanish","Buy from desperate people, and sell to newlyweds."
"Spanish","Brain is better than brawn."
"Spanish","Books are hindrances to persisting stupidity."
"Spanish","Blue eyes say, Love me or I die; black eyes say, Love me or I kill thee."
"Spanish","Call not a surgeon before you are wounded."
"Spanish","Comes in at the end with a wet sail."
"Spanish","Don't speak unless you can improve on the silence."
"Spanish","Covetousness bursts the bag."
"Spanish","Corsair against corsair nothing is got but empty casks."
"Spanish","Copper begets copper, and not the labour of men's bones."
"Spanish","Conscience is what tells you not to do what you have just done."
"Spanish","Confide in a woman and a magpie if you want something to be broadcast."
"Spanish","Compare your grieves with other men's and they will seem less."
"Spanish","Compare your griefs with those of other men and they will seem less."
"Spanish","Communism is a cow of many; well milked and badly fed."
"Spanish","Children and fools speak the truth."
"Spanish","Coming events cast their shadow before."
"Spanish","Children and fools tell the truth."
"Spanish","Come live with me and you'll know me."
"Spanish","Come fish, come frog, all goes into the basket."
"Spanish","Colts by falling, and lads by losing, grow prudent."
"Spanish","Clergymen's sons always turn out badly."
"Spanish","Cleanliness is next to godliness."
"Spanish","Cleaning a blot with blotted fingers maketh a greater."
"Spanish","Clay and lime conceal much evil."
"Spanish","Choose neither a woman nor linen by candlelight."
"Spanish","Blessings on him that said, Face about."
"Spanish","Command your wealth, else that will command you."
"Spanish","Better go about than fall into the ditch."
"Spanish","Blow, smith, and you'll get money."
"Spanish","Better play at small game than stand out."
"Spanish","Better one-eyed than stone blind."
"Spanish","Better one ""Take this,"" than two ""I will give you."""
"Spanish","Better lose a supper than have a hundred physicians."
"Spanish","Better later than never."
"Spanish","Better late than never."
"Spanish","Better joy in a cottage than sorrow in a palace."
"Spanish","Better is the smoke of my own house than the fire of another's."
"Spanish","Better sit idle than work for naught."
"Spanish","Better have a bad ass than be your own ass."
"Spanish","Better suffer a known evil than change for uncertain good."
"Spanish","Better go about than be drowned."
"Spanish","Better be the head of a rat than the tail of a lion."
"Spanish","Better alone than in bad company."
"Spanish","Better a quiet death than a public misfortune."
"Spanish","Better a good hope than a bad possession."
"Spanish","Better a friendly refusal than an unwilling consent."
"Spanish","Beggars must not be choosers."
"Spanish","Beggars can't be choosers. For a good appetite there is no hard bread."
"Spanish","Before you marry, have a house to live in, fields to till, and vines to cut."
"Spanish","Better is rule than rent."
"Spanish","Between the hand and the mouth the soup is lost."
"Spanish","Cowards die many times."
"Spanish","Blessed is he who expects nothing, for he shall never be disappointed."
"Spanish","Blessed are the dead that the rain rains on."
"Spanish","Bleed him, purge him, and if he dies, bury him."
"Spanish","Birth is much, but breeding is more."
"Spanish","Beware of a reconciled friend as of the devil."
"Spanish","Beware of a bad woman, and put no trust in a good one."
"Spanish","Between two stools one falls to the ground."
"Spanish","Between two sharpers, the sharpest."
"Spanish","Better rule in hell, than serve in heaven."
"Spanish","Between two friends a notary and two witnesses."
"Spanish","Blood boils without fire."
"Spanish","Between the ""yes"" and ""no"" of a woman you can't place a pin."
"Spanish","Between smith and smith no money passes."
"Spanish","Between saying and doing there is a long road."
"Spanish","Between brothers, two witnesses and a notary."
"Spanish","Better visit hell in your lifetime than after you're dead."
"Spanish","Better to bend than break."
"Spanish","Better to ask the way than to go astray."
"Spanish","Better they should say, ""There he ran away,"" than ""There he died."""
"Spanish","Better there should be too much than too little."
"Spanish","Between two Saturdays happen many marvels."
"Spanish","Fall sick, and you will see who is your friend and who not."
"Spanish","Each to his own and God watching over everyone."
"Spanish","Each person knows where problems lie."
"Spanish","Each of us must face our own responsibilities."
"Spanish","Dung is no saint, but where it falls it works miracles."
"Spanish","Drink wine upon figs."
"Spanish","Drink nothing with out seeing it; sign nothing without reading it."
"Spanish","Don't worry if people call you ordinary -- only if you are ordinary."
"Spanish","Don't talk too much, because your ignorance is greater than your knowledge."
"Spanish","Cow of many -- well milked and badly fed."
"Spanish","Don't take any wooden nickles."
"Spanish","Eating sets the head to rights."
"Spanish","Don't spoil the ship for a halfpenny-worth of tar."
"Spanish","A blustering night, a fair day follows."
"Spanish","Don't sign a paper without reading it, or drink water without seeing it."
"Spanish","Don't send away your cat for being a thief."
"Spanish","Don't scuffle with the potter, for he makes money by the damage."
"Spanish","Don't refuse a wing to the one who gave you the chicken."
"Spanish","Don't offer me advice; give me money."
"Spanish","Don't let anyone know about your secret money."
"Spanish","Don't kill the man at the count's desire."
"Spanish","Don't talk too much -- your ignorance exceeds your knowledge."
"Spanish","Even the best writer has to erase sometimes."
"Spanish","Every man for himself and God for us all."
"Spanish","Every law is broken to become a king."
"Spanish","Every law has its loophole."
"Spanish","Every hair casts its shadow."
"Spanish","Every fool is pleased with his bauble."
"Spanish","Every dog has its day."
"Spanish","Every country has its custom."
"Spanish","Every cock is proud on his own dung hill."
"Spanish","Every cock crows on his own dunghill."
"Spanish","Early flowers give no seed."
"Spanish","Every cask smells of the wine it contains."
"Spanish","Eat, drink and be merry."
"Spanish","Even a sugar mother-in-law tastes bitter."
"Spanish","Entreaty and right do the deed."
"Spanish","Entreaties to get him to sing, and entreaties to leave off."
"Spanish","Enjoy your little while the fool seeks for more."
"Spanish","Elm trees have beautiful branches but hardly ever bear fruit."
"Spanish","Either you sink or you swim."
"Spanish","Either the ass will die, or he that goads it."
"Spanish","Either rich or hanged."
"Spanish","Don't bet more than you can afford to lose."
"Spanish","Every cloud has a silver lining."
"Spanish","Dance to the tune that is played."
"Spanish","Don't call me a little olive until you've picked me."
"Spanish","Dine with arrogance, sleep with shame."
"Spanish","Different strokes for different folks."
"Spanish","Desperation is the mistress of the impossible."
"Spanish","Desire beautifies what is ugly."
"Spanish","Deeds are love, and not fine phrases."
"Spanish","Deceive not thy physician, confessor, or lawyer."
"Spanish","Debts are like children; the smaller they are the more noise they make."
"Spanish","Debts are like children: the smaller they are the more noise they make."
"Spanish","Discover not your silent money to anybody."
"Spanish","Dead men have no friends."
"Spanish","Discreet stops make speedy journeys."
"Spanish","Cut your coat to suit your cloth."
"Spanish","Cut your coat according to your cloth."
"Spanish","Custom makes all things easy."
"Spanish","Custom in infancy becomes nature in old age."
"Spanish","Custom becomes law."
"Spanish","Curses, like chickens, come home to roost."
"Spanish","Curses, like chickens, always come home to roost."
"Spanish","Curses on accounts with relations."
"Spanish","Cuando amor no es locura, no es amor."
"Spanish","Death is the reaper who doesn't take a midday nap."
"Spanish","Do not tell your secrets behind a wall or a hedge."
"Spanish","Beauty draws more than oxen."
"Spanish","Don't believe what you see, husband, but only what I tell you."
"Spanish","Don't be afraid of a spot that can be removed with water."
"Spanish","Do you want to see a wolf with young? Marry your daughter."
"Spanish","Do you want to buy cheap? Buy of a needy fool."
"Spanish","Do you carry the trough, husband, and I will carry the sieve, which is as heavy as the devil."
"Spanish","Do what the friar says, and not what he does."
"Spanish","Do what is right, come what may."
"Spanish","Do what I say well, and not what I do ill."
"Spanish","Dios tarda pero no olvida -- God delays but doesn't forget."
"Spanish","Do not throw a stone at the mouse and break the precious vase."
"Spanish","Don't bite off more than you can chew."
"Spanish","Do not talk Arabic in the house of a Moor."
"Spanish","Do not stuff your servant with bread, and he won't ask for cheese."
"Spanish","Do not steal a loaf from him that kneads and bakes."
"Spanish","Do not rejoice at my grief, for when mine is old, yours will be new."
"Spanish","Do not lose honour through fear."
"Spanish","Do not fret for news, it will grow old and you will know it."
"Spanish","Do not buy a carrier's ass, or marry an innkeeper's daughter."
"Spanish","Discretion is knowing how to hide that which we cannot remedy."
"Spanish","Discretion is a way of hiding what you cannot help."
"Spanish","Do not throw pearls to swine."
"Spanish","A house ready built and a vineyard ready planted."
"Spanish","A lazy ox is little the better for the goad."
"Spanish","A lawsuit for a maravedi consumes a real's worth of paper."
"Spanish","A lame goat will not sleep by day."
"Spanish","A kitchen-dog is never a good rabbit-hunter."
"Spanish","A husband with one eye rather than with a son."
"Spanish","A hungry man is an angry man."
"Spanish","A hungry man discovers more than a hundred lawyers."
"Spanish","A hungry belly listens to no one."
"Spanish","Before you marry, beware, for it is a knot difficult to untie."
"Spanish","A hundred tailors, a hundred millers, and a hundred weavers, are three hundred thieves."
"Spanish","A little loss frightens, a great one tames."
"Spanish","A house filled with guests is eaten up and ill spoken of."
"Spanish","A hidden fire is discovered by its smoke."
"Spanish","A hangman is a good trade, he doth his work by daylight."
"Spanish","A handsome woman is either silly or vain."
"Spanish","A handsome man is not quite poor."
"Spanish","A handsome hostess is bad for the purse."
"Spanish","A handful of motherwit is worth a bushel of learning."
"Spanish","A hair casts its shadow on the ground."
"Spanish","A guest and a fish stink in three days."
"Spanish","A hundred years hence we shall all be bald."
"Spanish","A man in love schemes more than a hundred lawyers."
"Spanish","A meowing cat is never a good mouse catcher."
"Spanish","A melon and a woman are hard to know."
"Spanish","A measly hog infects the whole sty."
"Spanish","A man without honor smells worse than a corpse."
"Spanish","A man who prides himself on his ancestry is like the potato plant, the best part of which is underground."
"Spanish","A man too busy to take care of his health is like a mechanic too busy to take care of his tools."
"Spanish","A man that is lean, not from hunger, is harder than brass."
"Spanish","A man that has had his fill is no eater."
"Spanish","A man may lose his goods for want of demanding them."
"Spanish","A lazy youth, a lousy age."
"Spanish","A man may hap to bring home with him what makes him weep."
"Spanish","A little gall embitters much honey."
"Spanish","A man gains nothing by vain glory but contempt and hatred."
"Spanish","A man forewarned is as good as two."
"Spanish","A malicious man is like a coal sack -- black on the outside and even blacker inside."
"Spanish","A lot of weeds will grow in a stagnant pond."
"Spanish","A looker on sees more of the game than a player."
"Spanish","A long tongue betokens a short hand."
"Spanish","A little thing in hand is worth more than a great thing in prospect."
"Spanish","A little spark kindles a great fire."
"Spanish","A great leap gives a great shake."
"Spanish","A man may learn wit every day."
"Spanish","A few germs never hurt anyone."
"Spanish","A great position entails great responsibility."
"Spanish","A friend in need is a friend indeed."
"Spanish","A fortunate man may be anywhere."
"Spanish","A fortress on its guard is not surprised."
"Spanish","A fool, unless he know Latin, is never a great fool."
"Spanish","A fool, if he holds his tongue, passes for wise."
"Spanish","A fool who knows Latin is never a real fool."
"Spanish","A fool sometimes gives good counsel."
"Spanish","A fool is someone who trusts another fool."
"Spanish","A friend to everybody is a friend to nobody."
"Spanish","A fifth wheel to a cart is but an encumbrance."
"Spanish","A full belly is neither good for flight, nor for fighting."
"Spanish","A father's love, for all other is air."
"Spanish","A fast day is the eve of a feast day."
"Spanish","A fair-weather friend changes with the wind."
"Spanish","A donkey decked in gold is better than an over-laden horse."
"Spanish","A dog won't bite you if you are carrying a stick."
"Spanish","A dog does not always bark at the front gate."
"Spanish","A devotee's face, and a cat's claws."
"Spanish","A determined heart will not be counselled."
"Spanish","A day without bread lasts long."
"Spanish","A fool and his money are soon parted."
"Spanish","A good listener is a silent flatterer."
"Spanish","A moneyless man goes fast through the market."
"Spanish","A great lance-thrust to a dead Moor."
"Spanish","A grand eloquence, little conscience."
"Spanish","A grain does not fill a sieve, but it helps its fellow."
"Spanish","A good word extinguishes more than a pailful of water."
"Spanish","A good thing lost is a good thing valued."
"Spanish","A good paymaster needs no security."
"Spanish","A good paymaster is keeper of other men's purses."
"Spanish","A good payer will not object to leaving a deposit."
"Spanish","A friend to everybody and to nobody is the same thing."
"Spanish","A good man's pedigree is little hunted up."
"Spanish","A great man's entreaty is a command."
"Spanish","A good life, they say, keeps wrinkles at bay."
"Spanish","A good life is the best sermon."
"Spanish","A good life defers wrinkles."
"Spanish","A good lawyer is a bad neighbour."
"Spanish","A good hope is better than a bad possession."
"Spanish","A good heart breaks bad fortune."
"Spanish","A good grievance is better than bad payment."
"Spanish","A girl draws more than a rope."
"Spanish","A gentle breeze blowing in the right direction is better than a pair of strong oars."
"Spanish","A good name covers theft."
"Spanish","A word and a stone once launched cannot be recalled."
"Spanish","A well-wisher sees from afar."
"Spanish","According to the custom of Aragon, good service, bad guerdon."
"Spanish","Abundance of things engenders disdainfulness."
"Spanish","Absent, none without blame; present, none without excuse."
"Spanish","Absence makes the heart grow fonder."
"Spanish","Absence is a foe to love; away from the eyes, away from the heart."
"Spanish","About the King and the Inquisition, hush."
"Spanish","Abbot of Carcuela, you eat up the pot and ask for the pipkin."
"Spanish","A young woman is to an old man the horse that he rides to hell."
"Spanish","Advise no one to go to war or to marry."
"Spanish","A word from the mouth is like a stone from a sling."
"Spanish","After a thrifty father, a prodigal son."
"Spanish","A word and a stone let go cannot be recalled."
"Spanish","A woman's tears are worth a lot, but cost little."
"Spanish","A woman's tears and a log's limping are not real."
"Spanish","A woman's place is in the home."
"Spanish","A woman's belly is a garden with many fruits."
"Spanish","A woman's advice is of little value, but he who does not take it is a fool."
"Spanish","A woman and a glass are always in danger."
"Spanish","A wolf's mourning is the fox's feast."
"Spanish","A mewing cat is never a good mouser."
"Spanish","A word from the mouth, a stone from a sling."
"Spanish","Bachelor, a peacock; betrothed, a lion; married, an ass."
"Spanish","A day of fasting is the eve of a feast."
"Spanish","Beauty and chastity are always quarreling."
"Spanish","Bear and forbear."
"Spanish","Beads about the neck, and the devil in the heart."
"Spanish","Be not an esquire where you were a page."
"Spanish","Be not a baker if your head is butter."
"Spanish","Be my enemy and go to my mill."
"Spanish","Be merry, Shrovetide, for to-morrow thou wilt be ashes."
"Spanish","Be a custom good or bad, a peasant will have it continue in force."
"Spanish","Actions speak louder than words."
"Spanish","Bad news is always true."
"Spanish","A turtle makes progress when it sticks its neck out."
"Spanish","Away with thee, sickness, to where they make a good pillow for thee."
"Spanish","All are not soldiers who go to the wars."
"Spanish","Alas! father, another daughter is born to you."
"Spanish","After the vintage, baskets."
"Spanish","After the house is finished, he deserts it."
"Spanish","After stuffing pears within, drink old wine until they swim."
"Spanish","After one vice a greater follows."
"Spanish","After dinner rest a while, after supper walk a mile."
"Spanish","After breaking my head you bring plaister."
"Spanish","Bargains are dear."
"Spanish","A penny spared is a penny saved."
"Spanish","A wise man changes his mind, a fool never will."
"Spanish","A proverb is a short sentence based on long experience."
"Spanish","A pound of care will not pay a pound of debt."
"Spanish","A postern door makes a thief."
"Spanish","A Portuguese apprentice who can't sew, yet would be cutting out."
"Spanish","A poor man is all schemes."
"Spanish","A pig's tail will never make a good arrow."
"Spanish","A pig bought on credit is forever grunting."
"Spanish","A pig bought on credit grunts all the year."
"Spanish","A rich man is either a scoundrel or the heir of a scoundrel."
"Spanish","A person who talks a lot is bound to be right sometimes."
"Spanish","A rolling stone gathers no moss."
"Spanish","A peck of March dust is worth a king's ransom."
"Spanish","A peasant will stand on the top of a hill for a very long time with his mouth open before a roast duck will fly in."
"Spanish","A peasant between two lawyers is like a fish between two cats."
"Spanish","A north wind has no corn, and a poor man no friend."
"Spanish","A mute bird makes no omen."
"Spanish","A mule and a woman do what is expected of them."
"Spanish","A morsel eaten selfishly does not gain a friend."
"Spanish","A monkey remains a monkey, though dressed in silk."
"Spanish","Before the time, great courage; when at the point, great fear."
"Spanish","A person who talks a lot is sometimes right."
"Spanish","A sick man sleeps, but not a debtor."
"Spanish","A turn of the key is better than the conscience of a friar."
"Spanish","A true gentleman would rather have his clothes torn than mended."
"Spanish","A tree often transplanted neither grows nor thrives."
"Spanish","A strong attack is half the battle won."
"Spanish","A spot shows most on the finest cloth."
"Spanish","A sparrow in the hand is better than a bustard on the wing."
"Spanish","A sooty chimney costs many a beef-steak."
"Spanish","A son-in-law's friendship is a winter's sun."
"Spanish","A son-in-law and a pig will show you the way only once."
"Spanish","A reconciled friend is a double enemy."
"Spanish","A soft answer turneth away wrath."
"Spanish","A miss is as good as a mile."
"Spanish","A short horse is soon curried."
"Spanish","A short halter for a greedy horse."
"Spanish","A shoemaker's wife and a smith's mare are always the worst shod."
"Spanish","A shock dog is starved and nobody believes it."
"Spanish","A sharp tooth for hard bread."
"Spanish","A secret between two is God's secret, a secret between three is everybody's."
"Spanish","A scabby colt may make a good horse."
"Spanish","A rule isn't unfair if it applies to everyone."
"Spanish","A rose too often smelled loses its fragrance."
"Spanish","A solitary ox shits more than a hundred swallows."
"Spanish","Fine words butter no parsnips."
"Spanish","All's not lost that's in danger."
"Spanish","Everything in its season, and turnips in Advent."
"Spanish","Evildoers always think the worst of others."
"Spanish","Expect not at another's hand what you can do by your own."
"Spanish","Every man is a fool in some man's opinion."
"Spanish","Faint heart never won fair lady."
"Spanish","Half the truth is often a whole lie."
"Spanish","Fancy surpasses beauty."
"Spanish","Fast as the hare runs, the greyhound outruns her, since he catches her."
"Spanish","Fate sends almonds to toothless people."
"Spanish","Fear and love never eat from the same plate."
"Spanish","Fear guards the vineyard."
"Spanish","Every woman has something of a witch about her."
"Spanish","Feet that are used to move cannot remain quiet."
"Spanish","Every season brings its joy."
"Spanish","All do not beg for one saint."
"Spanish","All griefs with bread are less."
"Spanish","All in the way of joke the wolf goes to the ass."
"Spanish","All is fair in love and war."
"Spanish","All is not lost that is in danger."
"Spanish","All mouth and no trousers. All talk and no action."
"Spanish","All things are easy that are done willingly."
"Spanish","All things of this world are nothing, unless they have reference to the next."
"Spanish","All work and no play make Jack a dull boy."
"Spanish","All's fish that comes to the net."
"Spanish","All's for the best in the best of all possible worlds."
"Spanish","Four things put a man beside himself--women, tobacco, cards, and wine."
"Spanish","Feed the raven and he'll peck out your eyes."
"Spanish","Every man should support himself, and not hang upon another."
"Spanish","Fox's broth, cold and scalding."
"Spanish","Fresh port and new wine, send a Christian to the churchyard."
"Spanish","Friday pretexts for not fasting."
"Spanish","Friendless in life, friendless in death."
"Spanish","Friendly words gain much and cost nothing."
"Spanish","Friends and wine should be old."
"Spanish","Friendship broken may be soldered, but never made whole."
"Spanish","Frivolous talk is like shooting without aiming."
"Spanish","From a fallen tree, all make kindling."
"Spanish","From a praying young man, and a fasting old man, God preserve my cloak."
"Spanish","From a silent man, and a dog that does not bark, deliver us."
"Spanish","From a silent person remove your dwelling."
"Spanish","Everybody's friends and nobody's friend is all one."
"Spanish","Every man is the son of his own works."
"Spanish","Always be patient with the rich and powerful."
"Spanish","Every one feels the cold according as he is clad."
"Spanish","Every one for himself, and God for us all."
"Spanish","Every one is wise when the mischief is done."
"Spanish","Every one knows best where the shoe pinches him."
"Spanish","Every one sneezes as God pleases."
"Spanish","Every one speaks of the fair as he himself finds it."
"Spanish","Every one stretches his legs according to the length of his coverlet."
"Spanish","Every one wishes to bring water to his own mill, and leave his neighbour's dry."
"Spanish","Every pedlar praises his own needles."
"Spanish","Every person is a fool in some person's opinion."
"Spanish","Every potter praises his pot, especially if cracked."
"Spanish","Every road leads to Rome."
"Spanish","From long journeys long lies."
"Spanish","Ask too much to get enough."
"Spanish","All's lost that's put in a riven dish."
"Spanish","As is the master, so is his dog."
"Spanish","As long as I was a daughter-in-law I never had a good mother-in-law, and as long as I was a mother-in-law I never had a good daughter-in-law."
"Spanish","As mony heads, as mony wits."
"Spanish","As soon as one goes out the window, another comes in the door."
"Spanish","As the abbot sings the sacristan responds."
"Spanish","As the best wine makes the sharpest vinegar, so the deepest love turns to the deadliest hatred."
"Spanish","As the call, so the echo."
"Spanish","As the day lengthens, so the cold strengthens."
"Spanish","As you make your bed so you must lie upon it."
"Spanish","As you sow, you shall reap."
"Spanish","Ask for too much in order to get enough."
"Spanish","As for friars, live with them, eat with them, and walk with them; then sell them as they do themselves."
"Spanish","Ask not after a good man's pedigree."
"Spanish","As are the times, so are the manners."
"Spanish","Associate with the good and you will be one of them."
"Spanish","Assurance is two-thirds success."
"Spanish","At an ambuscade of villains a man does better with his feet than his hands."
"Spanish","At an auction keep your mouth shut."
"Spanish","At her wedding, the bride eats the least."
"Spanish","At night all cats are grey."
"Spanish","At the end the Gloria is chanted."
"Spanish","At the game's end we shall see who gains."
"Spanish","At the wedding-feast the least eater is the bride."
"Spanish","At twenty a man will be a peacock, at thirty a lion, at forty a camel, at fifty a serpent, at sixty a dog, at seventy a monkey, and at eighty nothing."
"Spanish","Attack is the best form of defence."
"Spanish","Avoid a friend who covers you with his wings and destroys you with his beak."
"Spanish","Ask for too much so that you can get enough."
"Spanish","An open door tempts a saint."
"Spanish","Always taking out and never putting in, soon reaches the bottom."
"Spanish","An absent saint gets no candles."
"Spanish","An ailing woman lives forever."
"Spanish","An apple a day keeps the doctor away."
"Spanish","An ass let him be who brays at an ass."
"Spanish","An ass with her colt goes not straight to the mill."
"Spanish","An empty stomach will not listen to anything."
"Spanish","An inch in a sword, or a palm in a lance, is a great advantage."
"Spanish","An oak is not felled at one blow."
"Spanish","An oak is not felled at one stroke."
"Spanish","An old ox makes a straight furrow."
"Spanish","A blow with a reed makes a noise but hurts not."
"Spanish","As is the king, so are his people."
"Spanish","Experience is not always the kindest of teachers, but it is surely the best."
"Spanish","Every one in his own house, and God in all men's."
"Spanish","An ounce of blood is worth more than a pound of friendship."
"Spanish","An ounce of mother is worth a pound of priests."
"Spanish","An ounce of state to a pound of gold."
"Spanish","An ounce of wit that's bought Is worth a pound that's taught."
"Spanish","Anger and hate hinder good counsel."
"Spanish","Anger is a short madeness."
"Spanish","Another's bread costs dear."
"Spanish","Another's care hangs by a hair."
"Spanish","Any port in a storm."
"Spanish","Appetite comes with eating."
"Spanish","April and May make meal for the whole year."
"Spanish","Arms and money require good hands."
"Spanish","An old poacher makes the best gamekeeper."
"Spanish","God deliver me from a man of one book."
"Spanish","Give the grateful man more than he asks for."
"Spanish","Giving alms never lessens the purse."
"Spanish","Go in God's name, for he takes a loaf of mine."
"Spanish","Go not every evening to your brother's house."
"Spanish","Go not with every ailment to the doctor, with every plea to the lawyer, or with every thirst to the can."
"Spanish","Go to bed supperless and you will wake without debt."
"Spanish","Go to bed with the lamb, and rise with the lark."
"Spanish","Go to friends for advice, woman for love, strangers for charity and relatives for nothing."
"Spanish","Fire and love do not say ""Go to your work."""
"Spanish","Go to your aunt's house, but not every day."
"Spanish","From my gossip's bread a large piece for my godson."
"Spanish","God cures, and the doctor takes the fee."
"Spanish","God keep you from ""It is too late."""
"Spanish","God delays but doesn't forget."
"Spanish","Give me a seat, and I will make myself room to lie down."
"Spanish","God deliver us from a gentleman by day and a friar by night."
"Spanish","God does not smite with both hands."
"Spanish","God give you luck, my son, for little wit must serve your turn."
"Spanish","God gives almonds to one who has no teeth."
"Spanish","God gives wings to the ant that she may perish the sooner."
"Spanish","God grant me to argue with those who understand me."
"Spanish","God grant me to contend with those that understand me."
"Spanish","God grant you good fortune, my son, for knowledge avails you little."
"Spanish","God grant, dear wife, that this son be ours."
"Spanish","God helps him who helps himself."
"Spanish","God helps the early riser."
"Spanish","God is a good worker but He loves to be helped."
"Spanish","God defend you from the devil, the eye of a harlot, and the turn of a die."
"Spanish","If the devil is going to take me, said the courtesan, ""let it be in a coach."""
"Spanish","A blow from a frying-pan, if it does not hurt, smuts."
"Spanish","A blind man's wife needs no paint."
"Spanish","A blind man's stroke, which raises a dust from beneath water."
"Spanish","A bespattered hog tries to bespatter another."
"Spanish","A beautiful wife without money is like a fine house without furniture."
"Spanish","A beard well lathered is half shaved."
"Spanish","A barking dog was never a good biter."
"Spanish","A bad thing never dies."
"Spanish","A bad mother wishes for good children."
"Spanish","A bad man's gift is like his master."
"Spanish","A bad labour, and a daughter after all."
"Spanish","A bad excuse is better than none."
"Spanish","Give orders and do no more, and nothing will come of it."
"Spanish","A bad compromise is better than a successful suit."
"Spanish","Give me the ass that carries me in preference to the horse that throws me."
"Spanish","From smooth water God preserve me, from rough I will preserve myself."
"Spanish","From snow, whether baked or boiled, you will get nothing but water."
"Spanish","From that dust comes this mud."
"Spanish","From the leather of others you can cut long strips."
"Spanish","Get a good name and go to sleep."
"Spanish","Get a name to rise early, and you may lie all day."
"Spanish","Gifts break rocks."
"Spanish","Give a clown your foot, and he'll take your hand."
"Spanish","Give a dog a bad name and hang him."
"Spanish","Give a dog a bad name and hang it."
"Spanish","Give a thing and take a thing, to wear the devil's gold ring."
"Spanish","Give a traitor good words and you make him loyal."
"Spanish","God comes to see without ringing the bell."
"Spanish","A bad day never hath a good night."
"Spanish","For a chaste woman God is enough."
"Spanish","Fire, fire, many pots on. and one pea in them all."
"Spanish","First cobwebs, then chains."
"Spanish","First come to the mill, first grind."
"Spanish","Flattery makes friends and truth makes enemies."
"Spanish","Flying from the bull he fell into the river."
"Spanish","Folly is the most incurable of maladies."
"Spanish","Folly is the product of all countries and ages."
"Spanish","Fond of lawsuits, little wealth; fond of doctors, little health; fond of friars, little honour."
"Spanish","Fond pride of dress is sure a very curse; Ere fancy you consult, consult your purse."
"Spanish","Fools and bairns should never see half-done work."
"Spanish","Fools and obstinate men make rich lawyers."
"Spanish","Fools and the perverse fill the lawyers' purse."
"Spanish","Half a loaf is better than no bread."
"Spanish","For a bad night, a mattress of wine."
"Spanish","For a good companion good company."
"Spanish","God made us, and we admire ourselves."
"Spanish","For all one's early rising, it dawns none the sooner."
"Spanish","Go to friends for advice; to women for pity; to strangers for charity; to relatives for nothing."
"Spanish","For evil tongues, scissors."
"Spanish","For the want of worthy men they made my father alcade."
"Spanish","For want of a nail the shoe is lost."
"Spanish","For whom does the blind man's wife adorn herself?"
"Spanish","For whom sword and courage are not enough, corslet and lance will not be enough."
"Spanish","Forewarned is forearmed."
"Spanish","Fortune aids the bold."
"Spanish","Foster a raven and it will peck out your eyes."
"Spanish","Four eyes see more than two."
"Spanish","Fools rush in where angels fear to tread."
"Spanish","God, healeth, and the physician hath the thanks."
"Spanish","For better for worse they have married me."
"Spanish","Habits are first gossamer then cables."
"Spanish","God makes the back to the burden."
"Spanish","God sends cold after clothes."
"Spanish","God take you, pound, drunk out and not yet spun."
"Spanish","God will listen to you whatever cloak you wear."
"Spanish","God writes straight with crooked lines."
"Spanish","Good is the fowl which another rears."
"Spanish","Good luck makes its way in by elbowing."
"Spanish","Good men must die, but death cannot kill their names."
"Spanish","Good news is rumoured and bad news flies."
"Spanish","Good wine needs no crier."
"Spanish","Good wine sells itself."
"Spanish","Good wines needs no bush."
"Spanish","Grasp no more than thy hand will hold."
"Spanish","Habits are first cobwebs, then cables."
"Spanish","Guests always have nice backs."
"Spanish","God will provide, but a good bundle of straw will not be amiss."
"Spanish","Good words and bad deeds deceive both wise and simple."
"Spanish","Growing old is no more than another bad habit."
"Spanish","Great minds think alike."
"Spanish","Grass doesn't grow on a busy street."
"Spanish","Grasp all, lose all."
"Spanish","Grain by grain the hen fills her crop."
"Spanish","Good, that comes too late, is good as nothing."
"Spanish","Good, good, good, but God keep my ass out of his rye."
"Spanish","Good words fill not a sack."
"Spanish","Good words and no deeds are rushes and reeds."
"Spanish","The more danger, the more honor."
"Spanish","The mother who spoils her child, fattens a serpent."
"Spanish","The mother reckons well, but the child reckons better."
"Spanish","The mother of mischief is no bigger than a midge's wing."
"Spanish","The Mother of God appears to fools."
"Spanish","The most faithful mirror is an old friend."
"Spanish","The most cautious passes for the most chaste."
"Spanish","The more you get the more you want."
"Spanish","The more you flatter a fool, the more seriously he plays his game."
"Spanish","The more you court a clown the statelier he grows."
"Spanish","The more riches a fool hath, the greater fool he is."
"Spanish","The man deliberates, the woman decides."
"Spanish","The more haste, the less speed."
"Spanish","The mountain labored and brought forth a mouse."
"Spanish","The more a woman admires her face, the more she ruins her house."
"Spanish","The month loses its own, but not the year."
"Spanish","The miser will stubbornly live poorly in order to die rich."
"Spanish","The mill gains by gong, and not by standing still."
"Spanish","The mill does not grind with water that is past."
"Spanish","The mice will never play with the kittens."
"Spanish","The master's foot is manure for the estate."
"Spanish","The mare's kicks are caresses to the horse."
"Spanish","The mare's kick does not harm the colt."
"Spanish","The pen is mightier than the sword."
"Spanish","The more one has the more one wants."
"Spanish","The old man at home, and the young abroad, lie after the same fashion."
"Spanish","The gallows takes its own."
"Spanish","The paunch warm, the foot sleepy."
"Spanish","The patient who names a doctor his heir makes a big mistake."
"Spanish","The ox without a bell is soon lost."
"Spanish","The ox that butted me tossed me into a good place."
"Spanish","The ox spoke and said ""Moo."""
"Spanish","The ox comes to the yoke at the call of his feeder."
"Spanish","The open house makes a good man of the thief."
"Spanish","The only chaste woman is the one who has not been asked."
"Spanish","The one-eyed man is a king in the country of the blind."
"Spanish","The mother-in-law does not remember that she was once a daughter-in-law."
"Spanish","The old wife, if she does not serve for a pot, serves for a cover."
"Spanish","The mother-in-law must be entreated, and the pot must be let stand."
"Spanish","The old for want of ability, and the young for want of knowledge, let things be lost."
"Spanish","The official who can't lie may as well be out of the world."
"Spanish","The obscure we see eventually. The completely apparent takes longer."
"Spanish","The oaths of one who loves a woman are not to be believed."
"Spanish","The nightingale will run out of songs before a woman runs out of conversation."
"Spanish","The mouth that says yes says no."
"Spanish","The mouth and the purse, shut."
"Spanish","The mouse that only trusts to one poor hole, Can never be a mouse of any soul."
"Spanish","The mouse that knows but one hole is soon caught by the cat."
"Spanish","The mouse does not leave the cat's house with a bellyful."
"Spanish","The magistrate's son gets out of every scrape."
"Spanish","The one who rings the fire bell is safe."
"Spanish","The grapes are sour, said the fox, when he could not get at them."
"Spanish","The hen lays upon an egg."
"Spanish","The heart is no traitor."
"Spanish","The heart is like the astrologer who guesses at the truth."
"Spanish","The hare starts from where it is least expected."
"Spanish","The gutter by dropping wears the stone."
"Spanish","The greyhound that starts many hares kills none."
"Spanish","The grey mare is the better horse."
"Spanish","The green burns for the dry, and the righteous pay for sinners."
"Spanish","The greatest victory is a bloodless victory."
"Spanish","The greatest hate springs from the greatest love."
"Spanish","The man who does not love a horse cannot love a woman."
"Spanish","The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence."
"Spanish","The hole invites the thief."
"Spanish","The gossips fall out and tell each other truths."
"Spanish","The golden ass passes everywhere."
"Spanish","The goat can't well cover herself with her tail."
"Spanish","The glass-dealer's horses fell out, and he looked on to see which kicked hardest."
"Spanish","The girl as she is taught, the flax as it is wrought."
"Spanish","The gentle lamb sucks any ewe as well as its mother; the surly lamb sucks neither its own nor another."
"Spanish","The gardener's feet do no harm to the garden."
"Spanish","The gardener's dog neither eats greens not lets any one else eat them."
"Spanish","The gallows will have its own at last."
"Spanish","There is no mother like the mother that bore us."
"Spanish","The grass looks greener on the other side of the fence."
"Spanish","The king likes the treachery, but not the traitor."
"Spanish","The lucky man has a daughter for his first-born."
"Spanish","The loyal man lives no longer than the traitor pleases."
"Spanish","The lion's not half so fierce as he's painted."
"Spanish","The lion is not so fierce as he is painted."
"Spanish","The liar is sooner caught than the cripple."
"Spanish","The letter enters with blood."
"Spanish","The lean dog is all fleas."
"Spanish","The leader follows in front."
"Spanish","The lazy servant to save one step takes eight."
"Spanish","The lazy man always does twice the work."
"Spanish","The higher the rise the greater the fall."
"Spanish","The kite's malady, its wings broken and its beak sound."
"Spanish","The highest branch is not the safest roost."
"Spanish","The king goes as far as he may, not as far as he could."
"Spanish","The king goes as far as he can, not so far as he would."
"Spanish","The keys at the girdle, the dog in the larder."
"Spanish","The judge's son goes into the courtroom without fear."
"Spanish","The Jew ruins himself with passovers, the Moor with wedding feasts, and the Christian with lawsuits."
"Spanish","The hunchback does not see his own hump, but sees his companion's."
"Spanish","The horseshoe that clatters wants a nail."
"Spanish","The horse thinks one thing, and his rider another."
"Spanish","The horse may wish to do one thing, but he who saddles him another."
"Spanish","The honest man enjoys the theft."
"Spanish","The person seeking India's riches must have them within himself."
"Spanish","The land a man knows is his mother."
"Spanish","The wolf and the fox are both in one story."
"Spanish","The worst of a lawsuit is that out of one there grow a hundred."
"Spanish","The worst ewe dungs in the milking-pail."
"Spanish","The world is a round gulf, and he who cannot swim must go to the bottom."
"Spanish","The woman who dresses well attracts the husband from another woman's door."
"Spanish","The woman in finery, the house in filth, but the doorway swept."
"Spanish","The wolf picks up the ass's fleas by moonlight."
"Spanish","The wolf never wants a pretext against the lamb."
"Spanish","The wolf loses his teeth, but not his inclinations."
"Spanish","The wolf eats of what is counted."
"Spanish","The wolf does that in the course of the week which hinders him from going to mass on Sunday."
"Spanish","The voice of the people is the voice of God."
"Spanish","The wolf changes his teeth but not his disposition."
"Spanish","The wrong doer is never without a pretext."
"Spanish","The wise man does not hang his knowledge on a hook."
"Spanish","The wise knows that he does not know; the ignoramus thinks he knows."
"Spanish","The wise hand does not all that the tongue says."
"Spanish","The winter is gone, the spring is come, a fly for those who us good have done."
"Spanish","The wind changes every day; a woman changes every second."
"Spanish","The well-fed sheep makes a cloak of its tail."
"Spanish","The well-dressed woman draws her husband away from another woman's door."
"Spanish","The well-bred hound, if he does not hunt to-day will hunt to-morrow."
"Spanish","The wedding feast is not made with mushrooms only."
"Spanish","The pearls of a bride on her wedding day are the tears that will be shed later."
"Spanish","The wolf commits no mischief at home."
"Spanish","There is luck in odd numbers."
"Spanish","Serve a lord and you'll know what is grief."
"Spanish","There is no house without its hush. hush."
"Spanish","There is no happiness; there are only moments of happiness."
"Spanish","There is no disinterested gift."
"Spanish","There is no choicer morsel than that which is stolen."
"Spanish","There is no better surgeon than one with many scars."
"Spanish","There is no better patch than one off the same cloth."
"Spanish","There is no beast so savage but sports with its mate."
"Spanish","There is no answer for God out of my house, and What have you to do with my wife?"
"Spanish","There is never a great dunghill at a sportsman's door."
"Spanish","The worst pig gets the best acorn."
"Spanish","There is measure in all things."
"Spanish","The wrath of brothers is the wrath of devils."
"Spanish","There is luck in leisure."
"Spanish","There is little use in watching a bad woman."
"Spanish","There is a remedy for everything except death."
"Spanish","There is a great art in selling the wind."
"Spanish","There are three ""too much"" and three ""too little"" that can bring a fool down: too much spending and too little money; too much talking and too little knowledge; and too much boasting and too little earnings."
"Spanish","There are plenty more fish in the sea."
"Spanish","There are no birds in last year's nest."
"Spanish","There are more threatened than hurt."
"Spanish","There are eyes that fall in love with bleared ones."
"Spanish","There are all honest men, but my cloak is not to be found."
"Spanish","The turd is proud that the river will carry it."
"Spanish","There is mony a true tale tauld in jest."
"Spanish","The rich man transgresses the law, and the poor man is punished."
"Spanish","The shirt is nearer than the frock."
"Spanish","The sheep that bleats loses a mouthful."
"Spanish","The sharper the storm, the sooner it's over."
"Spanish","The sharper soon cheats the covetous man."
"Spanish","The servant wench that has a mother in town swoons seven times a day."
"Spanish","The secret of two no further will go; the secret of three a hundred will know."
"Spanish","The secret of patience is doing something else in the meantime."
"Spanish","The secret in swimming is to know how to take care of your clothes."
"Spanish","The scalded cat dreads cold water."
"Spanish","the rotten apple spoils its companion."
"Spanish","The wages of sin is death."
"Spanish","The righteous man sins before an open chest."
"Spanish","The snail, to be rid of annoyances, bartered its eyes for horns."
"Spanish","The rat that knows but one hole is soon caught by the cat."
"Spanish","The rat that has but one hole is soon caught."
"Spanish","The proof of the pudding is in the eating."
"Spanish","The poor-houses are filled with the honestest people."
"Spanish","The poor man has his crop destroyed by hail every year."
"Spanish","The pitcher that goes often to the well leaves either its handle or its spout there."
"Spanish","The pitcher goes so often to the well, that it leaves its handle or its mouth."
"Spanish","The pig's tail will never make a good arrow."
"Spanish","The person who plants the lettuce does not always eat the salad."
"Spanish","The person that makes one basket can make a hundred."
"Spanish","The road of ""about,"" leads only to the house of ""never."" Near the spring nobody dies of thirst."
"Spanish","The sword and the ring according to the hand that bears them."
"Spanish","The Truth will out."
"Spanish","The treason pleases, but the traitors are odious."
"Spanish","The tongue of a bad friend cuts more than a knife."
"Spanish","The tongue goes to where the tooth aches."
"Spanish","The tired ox plants his foot firmly."
"Spanish","The tiger that has once tasted blood is never sated with the taste of it."
"Spanish","The tide will fetch away what the ebb brings."
"Spanish","The threshold says nothing but what it hears of the hinge."
"Spanish","The threatener loses the opportunity of vengeance."
"Spanish","The thread breaks where it is thinnest."
"Spanish","The shoemaker's son always goes barefoot."
"Spanish","The thief thinks that all are like himself."
"Spanish","The smith's dog sleeps at the noise of the hammer, and wakes at the grinding of teeth."
"Spanish","The stone is hard and the drop is small, but a hole is made by the constant fall."
"Spanish","The stolen ox sometimes puts his head out of the stall."
"Spanish","The stew that boils much loses flavour."
"Spanish","The stew mixed by many is ill-seasoned and worse cooked."
"Spanish","The squeaking wheel gets the grease."
"Spanish","The spot will come out in the washing."
"Spanish","The spoken word sometimes loses what silence has won."
"Spanish","The spider's web lets the rat escape and catches the fly."
"Spanish","The son of an ass brays twice a day."
"Spanish","The snake that seduced Eve spoke Spanish."
"Spanish","The full-fed sheep is frightened at its own tail."
"Spanish","The thorn comes into the world point foremost."
"Spanish","Stubborn men make lawyers."
"Spanish","Take what you want, then pay for it."
"Spanish","Take what you want, God said to man, and pay for it."
"Spanish","Take the will for the deed."
"Spanish","Take the middle of the way and thou wilt not fall."
"Spanish","Take no notice of the stupid things people say."
"Spanish","Take in laundry before you take in partners."
"Spanish","Take hold of a good minute."
"Spanish","Take hold lightly; let go lightly. This is one of the great secrets of felicity in love."
"Spanish","Take away the motive, and the sin is taken away."
"Spanish","Suppers have killed more than doctors have ever cured."
"Spanish","Sow much, reap much; sow little, reap little."
"Spanish","Such awkward things will happen as going into the great square and coming back without ears."
"Spanish","Talk little and well, and you will be looked upon as somebody."
"Spanish","Store is no sore."
"Spanish","Steel whets steel."
"Spanish","Stealing would be a nice thing, if thieves were hanged by the girdle."
"Spanish","Stars are not seen by sunshine."
"Spanish","Spring is in the air. The sap rises in the spring."
"Spanish","Spilled wine is a sign of happiness, but break the bed and all will have long faces."
"Spanish","Speaking without thinking is shooting without taking aim."
"Spanish","Speak not of my debts unless you mean to pay them."
"Spanish","Speak not ill of the year until it is past."
"Spanish","The absent are always at fault."
"Spanish","Sugared words generally prove bitter."
"Spanish","Tell it her once, and the devil will tell it her ten times."
"Spanish","The gallows was made for the unlucky."
"Spanish","That which is cheap is dear."
"Spanish","That which covers thee discovers thee."
"Spanish","Tell your own story first."
"Spanish","Tell your friend your secret, and he will set his foot on your neck."
"Spanish","Tell your friend a lie; and if he keeps it secret, tell him the truth."
"Spanish","Tell your friend a lie -- and if he keeps it a secret, tell him the truth."
"Spanish","Tell your affairs in the market-place, and one will call them black and another white."
"Spanish","Tell not all you know, nor judge of all you see, if you would live in peace."
"Spanish","Tell me who you live with, and I will tell you who you are."
"Spanish","Taking out and not putting in soon reaches the bottom."
"Spanish","Tell it well, or say nothing."
"Spanish","Talk as you go, husband, to the gallows."
"Spanish","Tell her she is handsome, and you will turn her head."
"Spanish","Tell a lie, and you will bring out the truth."
"Spanish","Tell a lie and find the truth."
"Spanish","Talking of bulls is not the same as being in the bullring."
"Spanish","Talking is easy, action is difficult."
"Spanish","Talking is easy, action difficult."
"Spanish","Talking about bulls is not the same thing as being in the bullring."
"Spanish","Talking about bulls is altogether different from being in the arena."
"Spanish","Talk of sporting, and buy game in the market."
"Spanish","Talk much, and err much."
"Spanish","Sow dry and set wet."
"Spanish","Tell me the company you keep, and I will tell you who you are."
"Spanish","She stoops to conquer."
"Spanish","Since I wronged you, I have never liked you."
"Spanish","Silly sheep, where one goes, all go."
"Spanish","Silent water is dangerous water."
"Spanish","Silence and look out, we shall catch both hen and chicks."
"Spanish","Sickly women live longer."
"Spanish","Shyness is the prison of the heart."
"Spanish","Shut your door, and you will make your neighbour a good woman."
"Spanish","Short hose must have long points."
"Spanish","Shoot at a pigeon and kill a crow."
"Spanish","Shoemakers go to mass and pray that sheep may die."
"Spanish","Spanish is the language of lovers, Italian is for the singer, French for diplomats, and German for horses."
"Spanish","She who loves an ugly man thinks him handsome."
"Spanish","Since we have loaves let us not look for cakes."
"Spanish","She is well married who has neither mother-in-law nor sister-in-law."
"Spanish","She is nether fish nor fowl."
"Spanish","She is good who is close to the fire and does not burn."
"Spanish","She is good and honoured who is dead and buried."
"Spanish","She is fond of greens who kisses the gardener."
"Spanish","Seven is company, and nine confusion."
"Spanish","Seven brothers in a council make wrong right."
"Spanish","Set a thief to catch a thief."
"Spanish","Set a sprat to catch a mackerel."
"Spanish","Set a peasant on horseback, and he forgets both God and man."
"Spanish","Shoemaker stick to your last."
"Spanish","So money gets money."
"Spanish","Sow corn in clay, and plant vines in sand."
"Spanish","Sour wine, old bacon, and rye bread keep a house rich."
"Spanish","Soup must be hot -- insults cold."
"Spanish","Sorrows are valuable treasures that you only show to your friends."
"Spanish","Sometimes the remedy is worse than the disease."
"Spanish","Some have the fame, and other card the wool."
"Spanish","Some go to law, for the wagging of a straw."
"Spanish","Some day Peter will command as much as his master."
"Spanish","Soft and fair goes far."
"Spanish","So yourself be good, a fig for your grandfather."
"Spanish","Since the house is on fire, let us warm ourselves."
"Spanish","So wise, so young, they say, do ne'er live long."
"Spanish","Since we cannot get what we like, let us like what we can get."
"Spanish","Smoke, a dripping roof, and a scolding wife, are enough to drive a man out of his life."
"Spanish","Small choice in rotten apples."
"Spanish","Slow help is no help."
"Spanish","Slow but sure."
"Spanish","Sloth is the mother of poverty."
"Spanish","Sloth is the key to poverty."
"Spanish","Sleep over it, and you will come to a resolution."
"Spanish","Sleep is the best cure for waking troubles."
"Spanish","Skilled hands eat trouts."
"Spanish","Since you have scolding me, I have counted a hundred and twenty holes in that nutmeg grater."
"Spanish","The account is correct, but not a sixpense appears."
"Spanish","So you tell me there are wolves on the mountain, and foxes in the valley."
"Spanish","The dog that kills wolves, is killed by wolves."
"Spanish","The evil wound is cured, but not the evil name."
"Spanish","The evil which issues from thy mouth falls into thy bosom."
"Spanish","The epicure puts his purse into his belly."
"Spanish","The envious man's face grows sharp and his eyes big."
"Spanish","The empty purse says she is made of leather."
"Spanish","The earth produces all things and receives all again."
"Spanish","The earth hides as it takes, the physician's mistakes."
"Spanish","The early bird catches the worm."
"Spanish","The drunkard and the glutton come to poverty, and drowsiness clothes a man with rags."
"Spanish","The drowning man is not troubled by rain."
"Spanish","The deceived sheep that went for wool and came back shorn."
"Spanish","The dog wags his tail, not for you, but for your bread."
"Spanish","The eye of the master fattens the steed."
"Spanish","The dog that has its bitch in town never barks well."
"Spanish","The die is cast."
"Spanish","The devil turns away from a closed door."
"Spanish","The devil makes his Christmas pies of lawyers' tongues and clerk's fingers."
"Spanish","The devil lurks behind the cross."
"Spanish","The devil looks after himself."
"Spanish","The devil is so fond of his son that he put out his eye."
"Spanish","The devil hides behind the cross."
"Spanish","The devil gets into the belfry by the vicar's skirts."
"Spanish","That's a wise delay which makes the road safe."
"Spanish","The dress does not make the friar."
"Spanish","The first faults are theirs that commit them, the second theirs that permit them."
"Spanish","The full-fed cow makes company of her tail."
"Spanish","The friar who prays in god's name prays for two."
"Spanish","The friar who begs for God begs for two."
"Spanish","The fox that tarries long is on the watch for prey."
"Spanish","The fox knows well with whom he plays tricks."
"Spanish","The fox knows a lot, but a woman in love knows even more."
"Spanish","The fox is knowing, but more knowing he who catches him."
"Spanish","The fox does not do as much mischief in a year as it pays for in an hour."
"Spanish","The foolish sayings of a rich man pass for wise ones."
"Spanish","The fist loss is the best."
"Spanish","The exception proves the rule."
"Spanish","The first one to eat, the last one to work."
"Spanish","The exception which proves the rule."
"Spanish","The first duty of a soldier is obedience."
"Spanish","The first drink with water, the second without water, the third like water."
"Spanish","The fire well knows whose cloak burns."
"Spanish","The fierce ox becomes tame on strange ground."
"Spanish","The fertile field becomes sterile without rest."
"Spanish","The feast passes and the fool remains."
"Spanish","The fear of women is the basis of good health."
"Spanish","The fault is as great as he that commits it."
"Spanish","The father of a saint, the son of a sinner."
"Spanish","The father a saint, the son a sinner."
"Spanish","The dearest child of all is the dead one."
"Spanish","The first wife is a broom, and the second a lady."
"Spanish","The bad man always suspects knavery."
"Spanish","The best word still has to be spoken."
"Spanish","The best way to solve a problem is to attack the cause of it."
"Spanish","The best or the worst for a man is his wife."
"Spanish","The best mirror is an old friend."
"Spanish","The best feed of a horse is his master's eye."
"Spanish","The best cook drops a whole tomato."
"Spanish","The best cloth has uneven threads."
"Spanish","The best cast at dice is not to play."
"Spanish","The bell does not go to mass, and yet calls every one to it."
"Spanish","The beginning of health is to know the disease."
"Spanish","The devil climbs the bell tower in a priest's cassock."
"Spanish","The bath has sworn not to whiten the blackamoor."
"Spanish","The bow that is always bent slackens or breaks."
"Spanish","The bad barber leaves neither hair nor skin."
"Spanish","The bacon of paradise for the married man that does not repent."
"Spanish","The bachelor is a peacock, the fiancT is a lion and the married man a mule."
"Spanish","The ass of many owners is food for wolves."
"Spanish","The ass knows well in whose face be brays."
"Spanish","The ass dead, the barley at his tail."
"Spanish","The art of doing business lies more in paying than in buying."
"Spanish","The archer that shoots badly has a lie ready."
"Spanish","The ant gets wings that she may perish sooner."
"Spanish","The advice of foxes is dangerous for chickens."
"Spanish","The beast that goes well is never without some one to try his paces."
"Spanish","The cask smells of the wine it contains."
"Spanish","The dead open the eyes of the living."
"Spanish","The dead and the absent have no friends."
"Spanish","The day you marry, it is either kill or cure."
"Spanish","The day you marry 'tis either kill or cure."
"Spanish","The day I did not sweep the house, there came to it one I did not expect."
"Spanish","The day I did not make my toilette, there came to my house one I did not expect."
"Spanish","The cross on his breast, and the devil in his heart."
"Spanish","The church, the sea, or the royal household, for whoever would thrive."
"Spanish","The child is the father of the man."
"Spanish","The chickens have come home to roost. You're suffering the consequences now."
"Spanish","The better day the better deed."
"Spanish","The cat always leaves her mark upon her friend."
"Spanish","The body of the pope takes up no more room than the sexton's."
"Spanish","The cask full, the mother-in-law drunk."
"Spanish","The buyer needs a hundred eyes, the seller but one."
"Spanish","The buyer has need of a hundred eyes. the seller but one."
"Spanish","The busy man is troubled with but one devil, the idle man by a thousand."
"Spanish","The busy fly is in every man's dish."
"Spanish","The bread never falls but on its buttered side."
"Spanish","The bread eaten, the company departs."
"Spanish","The brain, that sows not corn, plants thistles."
"Spanish","The boy is father to the man."
"Spanish","The bowels support the heart, and not the heart the bowels."
"Spanish","There is no pleasure but palls, and the more so if it costs nothing."
"Spanish","The cat is friendly, but scratches."
"Spanish","When two are in love, only one needs to eat."
"Spanish","When you eat new bread, don't drink water."
"Spanish","When you die, your trumpeter will be buried."
"Spanish","When you can't get meat, chickens and bacon are good."
"Spanish","When you can't get bread, oat-cakes are not amiss."
"Spanish","When you are talking about marriage, think about your mother."
"Spanish","When you are on the road speak not ill of your enemy."
"Spanish","When you are at Rome do as Rome does."
"Spanish","When you are an anvil, bear; when you are a hammer, strike."
"Spanish","When we think to catch we are sometimes caught."
"Spanish","When we ask a favour, we say, Madam; when we obtain it, what we please."
"Spanish","When the summer is winter, and the winter is summer, it is a sorry year."
"Spanish","When two friends dip into their purse, one laughs, the other cries."
"Spanish","Where friars abound keep your eyes open."
"Spanish","When three people call you an ass, put on a bridle."
"Spanish","When thou seest thy house in flames, go warm thyself by it."
"Spanish","When thieves fall out, honest men come by their own."
"Spanish","When thieves fall out the thefts come to light."
"Spanish","When they offer you a ring, hold out your finger."
"Spanish","When they give you the calf, be ready with the halter."
"Spanish","When there is real danger, the dogs don't bark."
"Spanish","When there is a war between fire and water, fire loses."
"Spanish","When there is a famine, no bread is stale."
"Spanish","Where you lose nothing, you always win something."
"Spanish","When war begins the devil makes hell bigger."
"Spanish","Where the river is deepest it makes the least noise."
"Spanish","When a good offer comes for your daughter, don't wait till her father returns from market."
"Spanish","Where they eat your meat let them pick the bones."
"Spanish","Where there's whispering, there's lying."
"Spanish","Where there's smoke, there's fire."
"Spanish","Where there's muck, there's money."
"Spanish","Where there's gossiping, there's lying."
"Spanish","Where there's fire there's smoke."
"Spanish","Where there's a will there's a way."
"Spanish","Where there is no want of will, there will be no want of opportunity."
"Spanish","Where there is love, there is pain."
"Spanish","When you go to a strange house knock at the door."
"Spanish","Where the sea goes let the sands go."
"Spanish","Where force prevails, right perishes."
"Spanish","Where the heart is past hope, the face is past shame."
"Spanish","Where the goat leaps, leaps that which sucks her."
"Spanish","Where shall the ox go and not plough?"
"Spanish","Where one door shuts another opens."
"Spanish","Where one door is shut another opens."
"Spanish","Where man is not, nature is barren."
"Spanish","Where MacGregor sits at the head of the table."
"Spanish","Where luck is wanting, diligence is useless."
"Spanish","Where God sends babbies he sends penny loaves."
"Spanish","Where God has his church the Devil will have his chapel."
"Spanish","When the steed is stolen, you shut the stable door."
"Spanish","Where the wolf gets one lamb he looks for another."
"Spanish","When God gives light he gives it for all."
"Spanish","When misfortune sleeps, let no one wake her."
"Spanish","When love is not madness, it is not love."
"Spanish","When it rains, it pours."
"Spanish","When it rains in February, it will be temperate all the year."
"Spanish","When it rains in August, it rains honey and wine."
"Spanish","When ill-luck sleeps, let no one wake her."
"Spanish","When I was born I wept, and every day brings a reason why."
"Spanish","When he was born, Solomon passed by his door, and could not go in."
"Spanish","When good cheer is lacking, our friends will be packing."
"Spanish","When God will not, the saints cannot."
"Spanish","When there are two friends to one purse, one sings, the other weeps."
"Spanish","When God pleases, it rains in fair weather."
"Spanish","When one is hungry everything tastes good."
"Spanish","When fortune knocks upon the door open it widely."
"Spanish","When flatterers meet the devil goes to dinner."
"Spanish","When fire and water are at war, it is the fire that loses."
"Spanish","When every one says you are an ass, bray."
"Spanish","When drums beat, laws are silent."
"Spanish","When drink enters, wisdom departs."
"Spanish","When an old man cannot drink, prepare his grave."
"Spanish","When a peasant gets rich, he knows neither relations nor friends."
"Spanish","When a man is not used to breeches the seams gall him."
"Spanish","There is no lock, if the pick is of gold."
"Spanish","When God pleases, it rains with every wind."
"Spanish","When the devil finds the door shut he goes away."
"Spanish","When the spleen increases, the body diminishes."
"Spanish","When the Spaniard sings he is either stupid or without money."
"Spanish","When the river makes no noise, it is either dried up or much swollen."
"Spanish","When the rabbit has escaped, comes advice."
"Spanish","When the prior plays cards, what will the monks do?"
"Spanish","When the ox falls, there are many that will help to kill him."
"Spanish","When the old dog barks, he gives counsel."
"Spanish","When the iron is hot, then is the time to strike."
"Spanish","When the flatterer pipes, the devil dances."
"Spanish","When the fields yield not, the saints have not."
"Spanish","When one door shuts, a hundred open."
"Spanish","When the devil says his prayers he wants to cheat you."
"Spanish","When one door shuts, another opens."
"Spanish","When the corsair promises masses and candles, it goes ill with the galley."
"Spanish","When the child cuts its teeth, death is on the watch."
"Spanish","When the cat's away, the mice will play."
"Spanish","When the cat's away the rats will play."
"Spanish","When the bee sucks, it makes honey, when the spider, poison."
"Spanish","When poor, liberal; when rich, stingy."
"Spanish","When passion entereth at the fore-gate wisdom goes out at the postern."
"Spanish","When our enemy flies, build him a golden bridge."
"Spanish","When our daughter is married sons-in-law are plenty."
"Spanish","When one wolf eats another, thee is nothing to eat in the wood."
"Spanish","Where you lost your cloak, seek it."
"Spanish","When the Devil was sick the Devil a monk would be, When the Devil got well, the devil a monk was he."
"Spanish","Women and melons are at their best when they are really ripe."
"Spanish","Yesterday a cowherd, to-day a cavalier."
"Spanish","Wrinkles are the gravestones of love."
"Spanish","Wounds pain most when grown cool."
"Spanish","Wounds heal, but not ill words."
"Spanish","Wounds from the knife are healed, but not those from the tongue."
"Spanish","Working and painting are better from a distance."
"Spanish","Work improves the harvest better than the field itself."
"Spanish","Words will not do for my aunt, for she does not put faith even in deeds."
"Spanish","Words must be weighed not counted."
"Spanish","Women, wind, and fortune, soon change."
"Spanish","Wipe your eye with your elbow."
"Spanish","Women and wine rid a man of his common sense."
"Spanish","You can lead a horse to water, but you can't make it drink."
"Spanish","Women and calendars are good only for a year."
"Spanish","Woe to the mule that sees not her master."
"Spanish","Woe to the house where the hen crows and the rooster is still."
"Spanish","With money you would not know yourself, without money nobody would know you."
"Spanish","With lightning and with love, the clothes sound, the heart burned."
"Spanish","With bread and wine you can walk your road."
"Spanish","With a staircase before you, you look for a rope to go down by."
"Spanish","With a little wrong a man comes by his right."
"Spanish","Wit's never bought till it's paid for."
"Spanish","Where you father has been with ink, go not you with a bag."
"Spanish","Women, melons, and cheese are bought by the weight."
"Spanish","You have debts, and make debts still; if you've not lied, lie you will."
"Spanish","Your cracked jug seems better to me than my sound one."
"Spanish","You've made bed, and now you'll have to lie in it."
"Spanish","You're casting pearls before swine."
"Spanish","You will not be loved if you care for none but yourself."
"Spanish","You want better bread than wheaten."
"Spanish","You used to be a baker, though now you wear gloves."
"Spanish","You surrender your freedom where you deposit your secret."
"Spanish","You notice what I drink, and not the thirst I feel."
"Spanish","You must tolerate that which you cannot change."
"Spanish","You must face the consequences of your actions."
"Spanish","You are what you own."
"Spanish","You have to make the most of the chances that come your way. You have to strike while the iron is hot."
"Spanish","You can judge a man by the company he keeps."
"Spanish","You have broken my head and now you bring plaister."
"Spanish","You can't win them all."
"Spanish","You can't serve God and Mammon."
"Spanish","You can't make pancakes without breaking eggs."
"Spanish","You can't make bricks without straw."
"Spanish","You can't make an omelet without breaking eggs."
"Spanish","You can't have your cake and eat it too."
"Spanish","You can't have more bugs than a blanketful."
"Spanish","You can't have more bed-bugs than a blanket-full."
"Spanish","You can't catch trout with dry breeches."
"Spanish","Wipe the nose of your neighbour's son, and marry him to your daughter."
"Spanish","You have to suffer in the name of fashion."
"Spanish","Whilst the tall maid is stooping, the little one sweeps the house."
"Spanish","Who has nothing fears nothing."
"Spanish","Who has no bread to spare should not keep a dog."
"Spanish","Who has a trade may go anywhere."
"Spanish","Who gossips with you will gossip about you."
"Spanish","Who gives what he has before he is dead, take a mallet and knock that fool on the head."
"Spanish","Who gives the bread lays down the authority."
"Spanish","Who arrays himself in other men's garments is stripped on the highway."
"Spanish","Whither shall the ox go, where he will not have to plough?"
"Spanish","Whither goest thou, sorrow? Whither I am used to go."
"Spanish","Whither goest thou, Misfortune? To where there is more."
"Spanish","Wit without discretion is a sword in the hand of a fool."
"Spanish","Whilst we drink, prank ourselves, with wenches daily, Old age upon's at unawares doth sally."
"Spanish","Who is to bell the cat?"
"Spanish","Whilst the nurse suckles, we love her; when she is of no further use, she is forgotten."
"Spanish","Whether you ignore a pig, or worship that pig from afar, to the pig it's all the same."
"Spanish","Whether you boil snow or pound it you can have but water of it."
"Spanish","Whether the pitcher strike the stone, or the stone the pitcher, woe be to the pitcher."
"Spanish","Whether it be so or not, husband, put on your hood."
"Spanish","Wherries must not put out to sea."
"Spanish","Wherever you may be, do as you see done."
"Spanish","Wherever you are, do as you see done."
"Spanish","Where you think there is bacon, there are not even hooks for it."
"Spanish","Where you smart there I will hit you."
"Spanish","White hands are no offence."
"Spanish","Who ventures nothing has no luck."
"Spanish","Wine wears no mask."
"Spanish","Wine wears no breeches."
"Spanish","Wind and good luck are seldom lasting."
"Spanish","Win a game of your friend, and drink the money on the spot."
"Spanish","Whoredom and thieving are never long concealed."
"Spanish","Whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth."
"Spanish","Whom the gods would destroy, they first make mad."
"Spanish","Whom the gods love die young."
"Spanish","Whom God loves, his bitch litters pigs."
"Spanish","Whoever gossips to you will gossip about you."
"Spanish","Who has time yet waits for time, comes to a time of repentance."
"Spanish","Who wings, drives away care."
"Spanish","Who is always prying into other men's affairs, leads a dangerous life."
"Spanish","Who talks much, errs much."
"Spanish","Who stumbles without falling makes a bigger step."
"Spanish","Who receives a gift, sells his liberty."
"Spanish","Who preaches in the desert loses his sermon."
"Spanish","Who lends recovers not; or if he recovers, recovers not all; or if not all, not much; of if much, a mortal enemy."
"Spanish","Who knows most speaks least."
"Spanish","Who knows most says least."
"Spanish","Who is your enemy? A man of your own trade."
"Spanish","Who is well seated, let him not budge."
"Spanish","Who is to carry the cat to the water?"
"Spanish","When a friend asks, there is no tomorrow."
"Spanish","Whoever falls sick of folly, is long in getting cured."
"Spanish","To be a merchant, the art consists more in getting paid than in making sales."
"Spanish","To flee and to run are not all one."
"Spanish","To find oneself in tight breeches."
"Spanish","To every evil doer his evil day."
"Spanish","To err is human, to forgive divine."
"Spanish","To eat and to scratch one has but to begin."
"Spanish","To drunken mothers-in-law give full jugs."
"Spanish","To deny everything is to confess everything."
"Spanish","To deny all, is to confess all."
"Spanish","To change one's mind is rather a sign of prudence than ignorance."
"Spanish","To beards with money cavaliers pay respect."
"Spanish","Through not spending enough we spend too much."
"Spanish","To be like the esquire of Guadalaxara, who knew nothing in the morning of what he said at night."
"Spanish","To give is honour, to love is grief."
"Spanish","To a woman and a magpie tell your secrets in the marketplace."
"Spanish","To a son-in-law and a hog you need show the way but once."
"Spanish","To a hasty demand a leisure reply."
"Spanish","To a hard knot a hard wedge."
"Spanish","To a depraved taste sweet is bitter."
"Spanish","Time and tide wait for no man."
"Spanish","Time and I against any two."
"Spanish","Tie up the hen that eats at your place and lays eggs elsewhere."
"Spanish","Throwing your cap at a bird is not the way to catch it."
"Spanish","Too many cooks spoil the broth."
"Spanish","To be like the tailor of Campillo, who worked for nothing, and found thread."
"Spanish","To swim and swim more, and be drowned on shore."
"Spanish","When a goose dances, and a fool versifies, there is sport."
"Spanish","Tomorrow is often the busiest time of the year."
"Spanish","Today is yesterday's pupil."
"Spanish","To-morrow's remedy will not ward off the evil of to-day."
"Spanish","To-morrow will be another day."
"Spanish","To your son give a good name and a trade."
"Spanish","To whom you tell your secrets, to him you resign your liberty."
"Spanish","To the grateful man give more than he asks."
"Spanish","To the good listener, half a word is enough."
"Spanish","To the bold man fortune gives her hand."
"Spanish","To forget a wrong is the best revenge."
"Spanish","To take ambition from a soldier, is to rob him of his spurs."
"Spanish","To friend and foe alike I tell them how bad she is, so that I don't have to share her with anyone."
"Spanish","To own is to fear."
"Spanish","To offer friendship to one who is looking for love, is like giving bread to someone dying of thirst."
"Spanish","To mad words deaf ears."
"Spanish","To love and be wise is impossible."
"Spanish","To live in fear is a life half-lived."
"Spanish","To lie and eat fish demand a lot of skill."
"Spanish","To lather an ass's head is only wasting soap."
"Spanish","To him who gives you a capon you may spare a leg and a wing."
"Spanish","To him that watches, everything is revealed."
"Spanish","To give too much when little is asked is a form of refusal."
"Spanish","Three who held each other are as good as six."
"Spanish","To tell a woman what she cannot do is to tell her what she can."
"Spanish","There is some distance between Peter and Peter."
"Spanish","They are rich who have friends."
"Spanish","There's nothing so queer as folk."
"Spanish","There's no substitute for experience."
"Spanish","There's no smoke without fire."
"Spanish","There's no making a good cloak of bad cloth."
"Spanish","There's no argument like that of the stick."
"Spanish","There's no accounting for taste."
"Spanish","There's honor among thieves."
"Spanish","There would be no ill word if it were not ill taken."
"Spanish","There wasn't a sound to be heard. You could have heard a pin drop."
"Spanish","Throw that bone to another dog."
"Spanish","There is truth in wine."
"Spanish","They turn night into day."
"Spanish","There is nothing like deprivation to generate thanks for small mercies."
"Spanish","There is not a pair of ears for every Jew."
"Spanish","There is no worse joke than a true one."
"Spanish","There is no worse apprentice than the one who doesn't want to know."
"Spanish","There is no woman who sleeps so deeply that the sound of a guitar won't bring her to the window."
"Spanish","There is no thief without a receiver."
"Spanish","There is no tax upon lying."
"Spanish","There is no such witness as a good measure of wine."
"Spanish","There is no remedy for death, but death itself is a remedy."
"Spanish","There is no pot so ugly but finds its cover."
"Spanish","There was already twenty in the family, so my grandmother had a baby."
"Spanish","Though you are a prudent old man, do not despise counsel."
"Spanish","Three things must epigrams, like bees, have all, A sting, and honey, and a body small."
"Spanish","Three things kill a man: a scorching son, suppers, and cares."
"Spanish","Three things kill a man: a scorching son, suppers, and cares."
"Spanish","Three things are not to be trusted; a cow's horn, a dog's tooth, and a horse's hoof."
"Spanish","Three strikes and you are out."
"Spanish","Three Spaniards, four opinions."
"Spanish","Three men helping one another will do as much as six men singly."
"Spanish","Three daughters and their mother, four devils for the father."
"Spanish","Threatened men live long."
"Spanish","Threatened men eat bread."
"Spanish","They may whip me in the market-place, so it be not known at home."
"Spanish","Though you see me with this coat, I have another up the mountain."
"Spanish","They took away the mirror from me because I was ugly, and gave it to the blind woman."
"Spanish","Though the sun shines, leave not your cloak at home."
"Spanish","Though the speaker be a fool, let the hearer be wise."
"Spanish","Though my father-in-law is a good man, I do not like a dog with a bell."
"Spanish","This is the milkmaid's tale."
"Spanish","Things often happen when you least expect them to. Where we least think, there goes the hare away."
"Spanish","They who don't kill pigs must not expect black-puddings."
"Spanish","They who don't keep goats and yet sell kids, where do they get them?"
"Spanish","They whip the cat, if our mistress does not spin."
"Spanish","They two agreed like two cats in a gutter."
"Spanish","Halfway is twelve miles when you have fourteen miles to go."
"Spanish","Too many irons in the fire."
"Spanish","Though your bloodhound be gentle, don't bite him on the lip."
"Spanish","Well begun is half done."
"Spanish","What does not happen in a year may happen in a moment."
"Spanish","What cures the liver harms the spleen."
"Spanish","What cures Sancho makes Martha sick."
"Spanish","What Christ does not take the exchequer takes."
"Spanish","What children hear their parents say by the fireside, they repeat in the highway."
"Spanish","What can't be cured must be endured."
"Spanish","What belongs to everybody belongs to nobody."
"Spanish","What a woman wills God wills."
"Spanish","What a fool does in the end, the wise do in the beginning."
"Spanish","Wet kisses are the messengers of the heart."
"Spanish","We are not yet roasting, and already we make sops in the pan."
"Spanish","Well-married is when you have no mother-in-law and no sister-in-law."
"Spanish","What I see with my eyes I can guess with my fingers."
"Spanish","Welcome, misfortune, if you come alone."
"Spanish","Weight and measure save a man toil."
"Spanish","We're all a little crazy in one way or another."
"Spanish","We'll just have to make do."
"Spanish","We must live by the living, not by the dead."
"Spanish","We make more enemies by what we say than friends by what we do."
"Spanish","We have not yet saddled, and are already mounted."
"Spanish","We have no son, and yet are giving him a name."
"Spanish","We have been fools once in our lives."
"Spanish","Tomorrow is the busiest day of the year."
"Spanish","Were you at the wedding, Molly? No, mother, but the bride was very fine."
"Spanish","What my neighbour eats does my stomach no good."
"Spanish","When a fox is in his hole, the smoke fetches him out."
"Spanish","When a fool has made up his mind the market has gone by."
"Spanish","Whatever way you take there is a league of bad road."
"Spanish","What's everybody's business is nobody's business."
"Spanish","What you see is what you get."
"Spanish","What you dislike for yourself do not like for me."
"Spanish","What three know, everybody knows."
"Spanish","What the she-wolf does pleases the he-wolf."
"Spanish","What the fool does at last the wise man does at first."
"Spanish","What the boss says goes."
"Spanish","What force cannot do ingenuity may."
"Spanish","What one does, one becomes."
"Spanish","What have you to hide from someone who shows you his arse?"
"Spanish","What must be, must be."
"Spanish","What much is worth comes from the earth."
"Spanish","What is whispered in your ear tell not to your husband."
"Spanish","What is not yours always chirps for its master."
"Spanish","What is new cannot be true."
"Spanish","What is much desired is not believed when it comes."
"Spanish","What is mine is my own; my brother Juan's is his and mine."
"Spanish","What is in use, wants no excuse."
"Spanish","What is done, is done for this time."
"Spanish","What is another's always pines for its master."
"Spanish","We are not roasting, and already we are basting."
"Spanish","What the abbot of Bamba cannot eat he gives away for the good of his soul."
"Spanish","Truth and oil, always come to the surface."
"Spanish","Two in distress makes sorrow less."
"Spanish","Two great talkers will not travel far together."
"Spanish","Two great talkers never go far together."
"Spanish","Two false men to one traitor."
"Spanish","Two cannot fall out if one does not choose."
"Spanish","Two can play at that game."
"Spanish","Two boys are half a boy, and three boys are no boy at all."
"Spanish","Two blacks don't make a white."
"Spanish","Two birds of prey do not keep each other company."
"Spanish","Try to strike a happy medium."
"Spanish","We do not know what is good until we have lost it."
"Spanish","Truth, like oil, always comes to the surface."
"Spanish","Two sparrows on one ear of corn never agree."
"Spanish","Trust not your money to one whose eyes are bent on the ground."
"Spanish","Trust not your gossip to a priest who has been a friar."
"Spanish","Trust in God upon good security."
"Spanish","True love suffers no concealment."
"Spanish","Trouts are not caught with dry breeches."
"Spanish","Trouble will rain on those who are already wet."
"Spanish","Tripe broth, you make much of yourself."
"Spanish","Treat the small in the way you would want to be treated by the big."
"Spanish","Too much bursts the bag."
"Spanish","Too much breaks the bag."
"Spanish","Truths and roses have thorns about them."
"Spanish","Walk till the blood appears on the cheek, but not the sweat on the brow."
"Spanish","We are both carriers, and shall meet on the road."
"Spanish","We are as the king, only not as rich."
"Spanish","We are all equal in the eyes of the Lord."
"Spanish","Water past will not turn the mill."
"Spanish","Water for oxen, wine for kings."
"Spanish","Watch out for the dog that doesn't bark and the man who says nothing."
"Spanish","Watch out for a bad woman and never trust a good one."
"Spanish","War with all the world, and peace with England."
"Spanish","Walnuts and pears you plant for your heirs."
"Spanish","Walls sink and dunghills rise."
"Spanish","Two of a trade can never agree."
"Spanish","Walk until the blood appears on the cheek, but not the sweat on the brow."
"Spanish","Two of a trade never agree."
"Spanish","Visit your aunt, but not every day of the year."
"Spanish","Vainglory blossoms, and bears no fruit."
"Spanish","Unshared joy is an unlighted candle."
"Spanish","Under the sackcloth there is something hid."
"Spanish","Under my cloak I kill the king."
"Spanish","Under my cloak I command the king."
"Spanish","Under a tattered cloak you will generally find a good drinker."
"Spanish","Under a good cloak may be a bad man."
"Spanish","Under a gold sheath a leaden knife."
"Spanish","Under a bad cloak there is a good tippler."
"Spanish","The absent were never in the right."
"Spanish","Walls have ears."
"Spanish","If you want to make God laugh, tell him your plans."
"Spanish","If you would live in health, grow old early."
"Spanish","If you would live healthy, be old early."
"Spanish","If you would have the dog follow you, give him bread."
"Spanish","If you would be well served, serve yourself."
"Spanish","If you would be pope, you must think of nothing else."
"Spanish","If you would acquire fame, let not the sun shine on you in bed."
"Spanish","If you wish to be well served, serve yourself."
"Spanish","If you wish good advice, consult an old man."
"Spanish","If you want to watch, you'd better keep quiet."
"Spanish","If you want to thrash your wife, ask her for a drink of water in the sun."
"Spanish","If you want a fine wife, don't pick her on a Sunday."
"Spanish","If you want to marry wisely, marry your equal."
"Spanish","If your enemy is up to his waist in water, give him your hand; if the water reaches his shoulders, stand on his head."
"Spanish","If you want to live and thrive, let the spider run alive."
"Spanish","If you want to know what a man is really like, notice how he acts when he loses money."
"Spanish","If you want to know what a ducat is worth, try to borrow one."
"Spanish","If you want to know the value of money, go and borrow some."
"Spanish","If you want to know secrets, seek for them in trouble or in pleasure."
"Spanish","If you want to beat a dog, say he eat your iron."
"Spanish","If you want to be revenged, hold your tongue."
"Spanish","If you want to be respected, you must respect yourself."
"Spanish","If you want to be dead, wash your head and go to bed."
"Spanish","He who buts a horse buys care."
"Spanish","If you want to sleep well, buy the bed of a bankrupt."
"Spanish","He who does not look before lags behind."
"Spanish","If love be timid it is not true."
"Spanish","He who catches one fish is a fisherman."
"Spanish","He who comes first grinds first."
"Spanish","He who dances well goes from wedding to wedding."
"Spanish","He who deals with a blockhead will need a lot of brains."
"Spanish","He who delays, gathers."
"Spanish","He who denies all confesses all."
"Spanish","He who denies everything confesses everything."
"Spanish","He who divides gets the worst share."
"Spanish","He who does good to you either dies or goes away."
"Spanish","If you would make a thief honest, trust him."
"Spanish","He who does not honour his wife, dishonours himself."
"Spanish","If youhave the moon, ignore the stars."
"Spanish","He who does not mix with the crowd knows nothing."
"Spanish","He who does not pick up a pin cares nothing for his wife."
"Spanish","He who does not repair his gutter has a whole house to repair."
"Spanish","In a calm sea every man is a pilot."
"Spanish","Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery."
"Spanish","Ill-luck upon ill-luck, and a stone for a pillow."
"Spanish","Ill weeds are not hurt by frost."
"Spanish","Ill luck enters by fathoms and departs by inches."
"Spanish","If your wife tells you to throw yourself off a cliff, pray to God that it is a low one."
"Spanish","If your roof is made of glass, don't throw stones at your neighbor's house."
"Spanish","If you think the worst, you won't be far wrong."
"Spanish","He who does no more than another is no better than another."
"Spanish","If the peacock were to look at its feet, it would stop him strutting."
"Spanish","If three people say you are an ass, put on a bridle."
"Spanish","If this ball does not stick to the wall it will at least leave a mark."
"Spanish","If they say you are good, ask you self if it be true."
"Spanish","If there's no bread, cakes are very good."
"Spanish","If there were no receivers, there would be no thieves."
"Spanish","If there is still doubt do not accuse."
"Spanish","If there be no remedy, why worry?"
"Spanish","If the sky falls, hold up your hands."
"Spanish","If the sky falls we shall catch larks."
"Spanish","If the sky falls there will be pots broken."
"Spanish","If you want good service, serve yourself."
"Spanish","If the pitcher knocks against a stone, woe to the pitcher; and if the stone knocks against the pitcher, woe to the pitcher."
"Spanish","If wishes were horses, then beggars would ride."
"Spanish","If the mountain will not go to Mahomet, Mahomet must go to the mountain."
"Spanish","If the eyes don't see, the heart won't break."
"Spanish","If the doctor is fasting it is bad for the priest."
"Spanish","If the devil is going to disguise himself, it will be as a monk or a lawyer."
"Spanish","If the child cries let the mother hush it, and if it will not be hushed let it cry."
"Spanish","If someone cannot even keep his own secrets, don't count on him to keep someone else's."
"Spanish","If people lead, the leaders will follow."
"Spanish","If only I were a bird! Ah, but eating caterpillars?"
"Spanish","If one, two, three say you are an ass, put on a tail."
"Spanish","It is approved alchemy to have an income and spend nothing."
"Spanish","If the rings are lost, here are the fingers still."
"Spanish","If you have a loitering servant, set his dinner before him and send him on an errand."
"Spanish","If you talk too much you're likely to give yourself away."
"Spanish","If you play with fire you get burnt."
"Spanish","If you pay what you owe, what you're worth you'll know."
"Spanish","If you pay not a servant his wages then he will pay himself."
"Spanish","If you must battle your enemy, hit him where it hurts him most."
"Spanish","If you love me, John, your acts will tell me so."
"Spanish","If you live with wolves learn to howl."
"Spanish","If you live like that, you're bound to come to a bad end."
"Spanish","If you listen at a hole, you will hear ill of yourself as well as others."
"Spanish","If you lie down with dogs, you'll get up with fleas."
"Spanish","If thy heart fail thee, why then climb at all?"
"Spanish","If you have nothing better to do, go to bed with your own wife."
"Spanish","If two doctors visit a sick man, the sexton rings the bells."
"Spanish","If you have a friend who is a doctor, make your bow and send him to the house of your enemy."
"Spanish","If you go away, you can't expect people to keep your place for you."
"Spanish","If you eat it up at supper, you cannot have it for breakfast."
"Spanish","If you don't pay a servant his wages, then he will pay himself."
"Spanish","If you don't have what it takes you won't get on in the world."
"Spanish","If you cannot be chaste, be cautious."
"Spanish","If you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen."
"Spanish","If you can't bite, don't show your teeth."
"Spanish","If you are not good for yourself, how can you be good for others?"
"Spanish","If you are choosing between bad company and loneliness, choose the second option."
"Spanish","He who builds a house, or marries, is left with a lank purse."
"Spanish","If you leave your place, you lose it."
"Spanish","He did not invent gunpowder."
"Spanish","He who doubts nothing knows nothing."
"Spanish","He who does not whip the child does not mend the youth."
"Spanish","He who does what he likes, does not what he ought."
"Spanish","He who does not show himself, is overlooked."
"Spanish","Happiness itself does not stay -- only moments of happiness do."
"Spanish","Happy the house in which there is no shaven crown."
"Spanish","Harm watch, harm catch."
"Spanish","Have a bill to pay at Easter, and your Lent will be short."
"Spanish","Have patience and the mulberry leaf will become satin."
"Spanish","He buys well who is not called a donkey."
"Spanish","He is a good dog who goes to church."
"Spanish","He cannot find water in the sea."
"Spanish","In frosty weather a nail is worth a horse."
"Spanish","He does not a little who burns his house: he frightens the rats, and warms himself."
"Spanish","He expects to find water at the first stroke of the spade."
"Spanish","He falls into the pit who leads another into it."
"Spanish","He gathers up ashes and scatters flour."
"Spanish","He gives twice who gives in a trice."
"Spanish","He goes safely to trial whose father is a judge."
"Spanish","Servants make the worst masters."
"Spanish","He has much to do who would please everybody."
"Spanish","The act of treachery is liked, but not he that does it."
"Spanish","He who buys and sells does not feel what he spends."
"Spanish","He can do but little who cannot threaten another."
"Spanish","In the report, of riches and goodness always bate one half."
"Spanish","It is an ill bird that fouls its own nest."
"Spanish","It is a wise son that knows his own father."
"Spanish","It is a loss of soap to wash the ass's head."
"Spanish","It is a bad hen that eats at your house and lays at another's."
"Spanish","It goes ill in the house where the hen sings and the cock is silent."
"Spanish","It fares ill with the house where the spinning-wheel commands the sword."
"Spanish","Invite your son-in-law to a fowl, and he will take away the lemon."
"Spanish","Insults should be well avenged or well endured."
"Spanish","Ingratitude is the daughter of pride."
"Spanish","Indiscreet questions must be answered with a lie."
"Spanish","In a soap maker's house, a person who doesn't fall, slips."
"Spanish","In the rich woman's house she always commands; he never."
"Spanish","In for a penny, in for a pound."
"Spanish","In the presence of your neighbor don't praise your wife or his."
"Spanish","In the long run, the greyhound kills the hare."
"Spanish","In the garden more grows, than the gardener sows."
"Spanish","In the face of love and death, courage is useless."
"Spanish","In the bagpiper's house they are all dancers."
"Spanish","In the absence of honest men, they made my father mayor."
"Spanish","In my own house I am a king."
"Spanish","In less than a thousand years we shall all be bald."
"Spanish","In large rivers one finds big fish but one may also be drowned."
"Spanish","In hunting and in love you begin when you like and leave off when you can."
"Spanish","He is a great simpleton who starves himself to feed another."
"Spanish","In wartime no sweets are given out."
"Spanish","He that would be healthy must wear his winter clothes in summer."
"Spanish","He that is not gallant at twenty, strong at thirty, rich at forty, or experienced at fifty, will never be gallant, strong, rich, or prudent."
"Spanish","He that is not sensible of his loss has lost nothing."
"Spanish","He that is rich will not be called a fool."
"Spanish","He that makes one basket can make a hundred."
"Spanish","He that marries a widow will often have a dead man's head thrown into the dish."
"Spanish","He that minds his business at home, will not be accused of taking part in the fray."
"Spanish","He that neglects time, time will neglect."
"Spanish","He that stirs honey will have some of it stick to him."
"Spanish","He that ties well, unties well."
"Spanish","He that trusts a faithless friend, has a good witness against him."
"Spanish","He is a fool who thinks that another does not think."
"Spanish","He that will not when he may, when he will he shall have nay."
"Spanish","He that has no ill luck grows weary of good luck."
"Spanish","He that would have a beautiful wife should choose her on a Saturday."
"Spanish","He that would have the fruit must climb the tree."
"Spanish","He to whom God gives no sons, the devil gives nephews."
"Spanish","He who always tells me a lie never cheats me."
"Spanish","He who asks the fewest favors is the best received."
"Spanish","He who asks the fewest favours is the best received."
"Spanish","He who at thirty has no brains, will never purchase an estate."
"Spanish","He who at twenty understands nothing, at thirty knows nothing, and at forty has nothing, will lead a wretched old age."
"Spanish","He who avoids the temptation avoids the sin."
"Spanish","He who begins badly, ends badly."
"Spanish","He that will not when he can, cannot when he will."
"Spanish","He that blames would buy."
"Spanish","He is always right who suspects that he is always wrong."
"Spanish","He is blind enough who cannot see through a sieve."
"Spanish","He is in safety who rings the tocsin."
"Spanish","He is my friend who grinds at my mill."
"Spanish","He is out of danger who rings the alarm-bell."
"Spanish","He is your friend who gets you out of a fray."
"Spanish","He knows it as well as his Lord's Prayer."
"Spanish","He loses his market who has nothing to sell."
"Spanish","He loves well who never forgets."
"Spanish","He made a pit and digged it, and has fallen into the ditch which he made."
"Spanish","He that is more civil than usual, either wants to cozen you or has need of you."
"Spanish","He preaches well who lives well."
"Spanish","He that is born to be hanged shall never be drowned. You can't escape your destiny."
"Spanish","He that chastens one chastens twenty."
"Spanish","He that does not lie, does not come of good blood."
"Spanish","In a choice between bad company and loneliness -- the second is preferable."
"Spanish","He that eats his fowl alone may saddle his horse alone."
"Spanish","He that eats the king's geese shall be choked with the feathers."
"Spanish","He that eats till he is sick must fast till he is well."
"Spanish","He that fights and runs away, lives to fight another day."
"Spanish","He that has a good harvest must be able to endure a few thistles."
"Spanish","He that has an hour's start will not be hanged."
"Spanish","He that has an ill name is half hanged."
"Spanish","If it is good then the deed is more important than the intention; if it's bad then the intention is worse than the deed."
"Spanish","He made me mad To see him shine so brisk and smell so sweet."
"Spanish","He who knows nothing, doubts nothing."
"Spanish","He who loves well, obeys well."
"Spanish","He who loves well is slow to forget."
"Spanish","He who loves Peter won't harm his dog."
"Spanish","He who loves me loves my dog too."
"Spanish","He who loves Bertrand loves his dog."
"Spanish","He who lost his faith, has nothing more to lose."
"Spanish","He who looks demurely trust not with your money."
"Spanish","He who lives in hopes, breakfasts ill and sups worse."
"Spanish","He who lives a long life must pass through much evil."
"Spanish","He who lies down with dogs gets up with fleas."
"Spanish","He who is caught in a lie is not believed when he tells the truth."
"Spanish","He who laid a snare for me has fallen into it."
"Spanish","He who makes light of his enemy dies by his hand."
"Spanish","He who knows nothing is as blind as him who cannot see."
"Spanish","He who knows little soon tells it."
"Spanish","He who knows how to live, knows enough."
"Spanish","He who keeps his own secret avoids much mischief."
"Spanish","He who is silent gains store."
"Spanish","He who is proud of his sins, sins twice as much."
"Spanish","He who is in the mud likes to get another into it."
"Spanish","He who is feared gets more than his own."
"Spanish","He who is everybody's friend is either very poor or very rich."
"Spanish","He who sows brambles must not go barefoot."
"Spanish","He who leaves his people will be left by God."
"Spanish","He who promises incurs a debt."
"Spanish","If lying were a capital crime, the hangman would work overtime."
"Spanish","He who shelters under a tree gets twice as wet."
"Spanish","He who serves many masters must neglect some of them."
"Spanish","He who serves is not free."
"Spanish","He who seeks, finds."
"Spanish","He who says what he likes, hears what he does not like."
"Spanish","He who saves, finds."
"Spanish","He who runs in his youth, trots in his old age."
"Spanish","He who rides behind another does not saddle when he will."
"Spanish","He who remains in the mill grinds, not he who goes to and fro."
"Spanish","He who made fun of the old man, laughed at first and cried afterwards."
"Spanish","He who receives the offerings let him ring the bells."
"Spanish","He who makes a law should keep it."
"Spanish","He who pours water hastily into a bottle spills more than goes in."
"Spanish","He who pledges or promises runs in debt."
"Spanish","He who plants the lettuce doesn't always eat the salad."
"Spanish","He who peeps through a hole may see what will vex him."
"Spanish","He who pays the piper calls the tune."
"Spanish","He who never has enough, never has anything."
"Spanish","He who measures oil greases his hands."
"Spanish","He who marrieth does well, but he who marrieth not, better."
"Spanish","He who marries ill, is long in becoming widowed."
"Spanish","He who marries a widow will often have a dead man's head thrown in his dish."
"Spanish","He who is afraid of a thing gives it power over him."
"Spanish","He who reforms, God assists."
"Spanish","He who gives to the public, gives to no one."
"Spanish","He who has a good looking wife, a castle on the river, or a vineyard on the roadside is never without war."
"Spanish","He who has a glass roof should not throw stones at his neighbour's."
"Spanish","He who has a bad wife can expect no happiness that can be so called."
"Spanish","He who hangs out a branch wants to sell his wine."
"Spanish","He who greases his wheels, helps his oxen."
"Spanish","He who greases his cart-wheels helps his oxen."
"Spanish","He who grasps at much holds fast little."
"Spanish","He who grasps all loses all."
"Spanish","He who goes with wolves learns to howl."
"Spanish","He who goes to law for a sheep loses his cow."
"Spanish","He who is contented is not always rich."
"Spanish","He who gives when he is asked has waited too long."
"Spanish","He who has a son grown up should not call another a thief."
"Spanish","He who forgives a thief is a thief himself."
"Spanish","He who finds fault wants to buy."
"Spanish","He who fears death cannot enjoy life."
"Spanish","He who excuses himself accuses himself."
"Spanish","He who eats the meat let him pick the bone."
"Spanish","He who eats the king's cow lean, pays for it fat."
"Spanish","He who eats and puts by, has sufficient for two meals."
"Spanish","He who eats alone chokes alone."
"Spanish","He who eats a partridge in his youth will only be left with feathers in his old age."
"Spanish","He who dresses ion others' clothes will be undressed on the highway."
"Spanish","He who goes far from home to marry, goes either to deceive or be deceived."
"Spanish","He who has lost his reputation is a dead man among the living."
"Spanish","He who is a Basque, a good Christian and has two mules, needs nothing more."
"Spanish","He who inherits a hill must climb it."
"Spanish","He who helps everybody, helps nobody."
"Spanish","He who has two masters to serve must lie to one of them."
"Spanish","He who has to deal with a blockhead has need of much brains."
"Spanish","He who has shipped the devil, must carry him over the sound."
"Spanish","He who has sheep has fleeces."
"Spanish","He who has servants has unavoidable enemies."
"Spanish","He who has no wife, is for thrashing her daily; but he that has one, takes care of her."
"Spanish","He who has no voice in the valley, will have none in the council."
"Spanish","He who has a good wife can bear any evil."
"Spanish","He who has no head wants no hat."
"Spanish","He who has a handsome wife, a castle on the frontier, or a vineyard on the roadside, is never without war."
"Spanish","He who has lost his oxen is always hearing bells."
"Spanish","He who has got four and spends five, has no occasion for a purse."
"Spanish","He who has enemies, let him not sleep."
"Spanish","He who has daughters to marry, let him give them silk to spin."
"Spanish","He who has but one coat cannot lend it."
"Spanish","He who has both money and bread, may choose with whom his daughter to wed."
"Spanish","He who has been stung by the scorpion is frightened at its shadow."
"Spanish","He who has been first a novice and then an abbot, knows what the boys do behind the altar."
"Spanish","He who has a trade may travel through the world."
"Spanish","He who has a tongue goes to Rome."
"Spanish","He who sows brambles reaps thorns."
"Spanish","He who has no house of his own is everywhere at home."
"Spanish","I a lazy lout, you a lazy lout, marry me, Antonia."
"Spanish","I know they are all honest men, but my cloak is nowhere to be found."
"Spanish","I have a good jacket in France."
"Spanish","I don't want the cheese; I just want out of the trap."
"Spanish","I don't want it, I don't want it, but put it into my hood."
"Spanish","I don't count them to you, wife, but a hog makes twelve puddings."
"Spanish","I don't care what people say as long as I get what want."
"Spanish","I do not tell thee what thou art, thou wilt tell it thyself."
"Spanish","I dance to the tune that is played."
"Spanish","I cried when I was born and as each day passes I know why."
"Spanish","I broke my leg, perhaps for my good."
"Spanish","However bright the sun may shine, leave not your cloak at home."
"Spanish","I am like you and you like me. the devil united us."
"Spanish","I left what I knew for what I heard praised, and repented."
"Spanish","Hush, brideswoman, I knew all that before."
"Spanish","Husband, you are a cuckold; wife, who told you so?"
"Spanish","Husband, don't see; wife, be blind."
"Spanish","Hunger never saw bad bread."
"Spanish","Hunger is the best sauce."
"Spanish","Hunger is good kitchen."
"Spanish","Hunger drives the wol out of the woods."
"Spanish","Hunger and cold give a man up to his enemy."
"Spanish","However foul it be, never say, Of this water I will not drink."
"Spanish","He who sleeps much, learns little."
"Spanish","I am neither at the ford nor the bridge."
"Spanish","I wept when I was born and every day explains why."
"Spanish","If I die, I forgive you; if I recover, we shall see."
"Spanish","If I die, I forgive you. If I live we shall see."
"Spanish","If I am a fool, put your finger in my mouth."
"Spanish","If fools went not to market, bad wares would not be sold."
"Spanish","If folly were a pain, there would be groaning in every house."
"Spanish","If at first you don't succeed, try, try again. Never say die."
"Spanish","If a person is away, his right is away."
"Spanish","If a job is worth doing, it's worth doing well."
"Spanish","Idiots can sometimes give good advice."
"Spanish","I've fried my sausage in better pans than these."
"Spanish","I know well what I say when I ask for bread."
"Spanish","I would rather have a donkey that can carry me than a horse that throws me."
"Spanish","I know what I know, but will say nothing about it."
"Spanish","I thought to cross myself, and I put out my eye."
"Spanish","I thought I had no husband, and I eat up the stew."
"Spanish","I thought I had made the sign of the cross -- and I hurt my eye."
"Spanish","I stubborn and you stubborn, who is to carry the load?"
"Spanish","I say it to you, daughter; hear it, daughter-in-law."
"Spanish","I perfectly feel even at my fingers end."
"Spanish","I never was satisfied with ""I will, I will."" One ""take this"" is better than two ""I will give you."""
"Spanish","I neither give nor take, like a Jew on the Sabbath."
"Spanish","I mistress and you miss, who is to sweep the house?"
"Spanish","I like not fair terms and a villain's mind."
"Spanish","How shall the enemy of the bride speak well of the wedding?"
"Spanish","I'll marry, and eat the prime of the pot, and sit down first."
"Spanish","He who talks to a mule is one himself."
"Spanish","He who would bring home the wealth of the Indies must carry the wealth of the Indies with him."
"Spanish","He who would be rich should not collect money, but reduce his needs."
"Spanish","He who works on the highway will have many advisers."
"Spanish","He who was first an acolyte, and afterwards an abbot or curate, knows what the boys do behind the altar."
"Spanish","He who wants to kill his dog only has to say he is mad."
"Spanish","He who wants to catch fish must not mind a wetting."
"Spanish","He who wants to bring home the riches of India, he must have them within himself."
"Spanish","He who wants to be rich in a year comes to the gallows in half a year."
"Spanish","He who wants a mule without fault must walk on foot."
"Spanish","He who trifles with his enemy dies by his hand."
"Spanish","However early you get up you cannot hasten the dawn."
"Spanish","He who tells his own secret will hardly keep another's."
"Spanish","He who would thrive must follow the church, the sea, or the king's service."
"Spanish","He who talks much is sometimes right."
"Spanish","He who takes the wrong road must make his journey twice over."
"Spanish","He who stumbles twice over one stone deserves to break his shins."
"Spanish","He who stumbles and does not fall mends his pace."
"Spanish","He who strives to do, does more than he who has the power."
"Spanish","He who steals once is never trusty."
"Spanish","He who steals once is always a thief."
"Spanish","He who spits above himself will have it fall on his face."
"Spanish","He who sows well, reaps well."
"Spanish","He who sows courtesy reaps friendship, and he who plants kindness gathers love."
"Spanish","He who threatens to strike, and does not, is afraid."
"Spanish","Hidden joy is an extinguished candle."
"Spanish","How beautiful it is to do nothing, and then rest afterward."
"Spanish","Hope for the best and prepare for the worst."
"Spanish","Hope deferred makes the heart sick."
"Spanish","Honor buys no meat in the market. Hope is a good breakfast but a bad supper."
"Spanish","Honor and money cannot go in the same sack."
"Spanish","Honey was not made for the mouth of the ass."
"Spanish","Honesty is the best policy."
"Spanish","Home is where the heart is."
"Spanish","Home is where he hangs his hat."
"Spanish","His courage oozed out at his fingers' ends."
"Spanish","He who would cheat the fox must rise early."
"Spanish","Him who errs, forgive once, but never twice."
"Spanish","He who would take must give."
"Spanish","Her left hand doesn't know what her right hand is doing."
"Spanish","Her father's fortune will make the ugliest girl attractive."
"Spanish","Hell is full of the ungrateful."
"Spanish","Hell has no fury like a woman scorned."
"Spanish","Hear no evil, see no evil, speak no evil."
"Spanish","Hear first, and speak afterwards."
"Spanish","Health is better than wealth."
"Spanish","Health and cheerfulness make beauty; finery and cosmetics cost money and lie."
"Spanish","He will never worship well the image on the altar who knew it when it was a trunk of wood in the garden."
"Spanish","He whose house is tiled with glass should not throw stones at his neighbour's."
"Spanish","In a wood don't walk behind another."
"Spanish","His bread fell into the honey."
"Spanish","No king was ever a traitor, or pope excommunicated."
"Spanish","Never show the truth naked -- just in its shirt."
"Spanish","No work, no money."
"Spanish","No wonder if he breaks his head who stumbles twice over one stone."
"Spanish","No woman is ugly when she is dressed."
"Spanish","No rogue like the godly rogue."
"Spanish","No revenge is more honourable than the one not taken."
"Spanish","No revenge is more honorable than the one not taken."
"Spanish","No relation is poor."
"Spanish","No one would be an innkeeper but for money."
"Spanish","No one will notice in the dark."
"Spanish","No offense taken when none is meant."
"Spanish","No need to seek shelter for an old ox."
"Spanish","None so deaf as he that will not hear."
"Spanish","No man is quick enough to enjoy life to the full."
"Spanish","Not all things have to be scrutinized, nor all friends tested, not all enemies exposed and denounced."
"Spanish","No joy without alloy."
"Spanish","No Jew a fool; no hare lazy."
"Spanish","No fly gets into a shut mouth."
"Spanish","No flies light on a boiling pot."
"Spanish","No bees, no honey."
"Spanish","Night brings counsel."
"Spanish","New trappings to an old mule."
"Spanish","New loves drive out the old."
"Spanish","Never too late to do well."
"Spanish","Never spread your corn to dry before the door of a saintly man."
"Spanish","Never spend your money before you have it."
"Spanish","On a long journey, even a straw weighs heavy."
"Spanish","No mirror ever reflected an ugly woman."
"Spanish","Nurse, you are mistress whilst the child sucks, and after that nothing."
"Spanish","In a smith's house the knife is wooden."
"Spanish","On a fool's beard all learn to shave."
"Spanish","Old reckonings breed new disputes."
"Spanish","Old friends and old wine and old gold are best."
"Spanish","Old as is the boat it may cross the ferry once."
"Spanish","Old age is cruel for whores and magicians."
"Spanish","Of your wife and your tried friend believe nothing but what you know for certain."
"Spanish","Of what you see, believe very little, of what you are told, nothing."
"Spanish","Of the malady a man fears, he dies."
"Spanish","Of soups and loves the first are the best."
"Spanish","Of other men's leather large thongs."
"Spanish","Of evils, the least."
"Spanish","Nobody sows a thing that will not sell."
"Spanish","Of all pains, the greatest pain, is to love, but love in vain."
"Spanish","Never put your thumbs between two grinders."
"Spanish","Now that I have an ewe and a lamb, every one says to me: Good morrow, Peter."
"Spanish","Nothing venture, nothing have."
"Spanish","Nothing succeeds like success."
"Spanish","Nothing is lost on a journey by stopping to pray or to feed your horse."
"Spanish","Nothing is gained without taking risks."
"Spanish","Nothing goes on for ever."
"Spanish","Nothing falls into the mouth of a sleeping fox."
"Spanish","Not to wish to recover is a mortal symptom."
"Spanish","Not to watch your workmen is to lose your money."
"Spanish","Not the cry, but the flight of the wild duck, leads the flock to fly and follow."
"Spanish","Not he gives who likes, but who has."
"Spanish","Not everyone who wears spurs owns a horse."
"Spanish","Of brothers-in-law and red dogs few are good."
"Spanish","Money turns bad into good."
"Spanish","Never speak of a rope in the house of one who was hanged."
"Spanish","My life and soul, but not my pack-saddle."
"Spanish","My gossips don't like me because I tell them truths."
"Spanish","My daughter-in-law tucked up her sleeves, and upset the kettle into the fire."
"Spanish","Much talking, much erring."
"Spanish","Much pleasure and little grief is every man's desire."
"Spanish","Much never cost little."
"Spanish","Mother, what is marrying? Spinning, bearing children, and crying, daughter."
"Spanish","Mother, marry me, marry me, or the gull will fly away with me."
"Spanish","Moses does not play because he has not the means."
"Spanish","More things grow in the garden than the gardener sows."
"Spanish","More than enough is too much."
"Spanish","My neighbour's hen lays more eggs than mine."
"Spanish","Money will do more than my lord's letter."
"Spanish","My sister's son is a kinsman beyond dispute."
"Spanish","Money soothes more than a gentleman's words."
"Spanish","Money goes where money is."
"Spanish","Money gets money."
"Spanish","Misfortunes always come in threes. These things always come in threes."
"Spanish","Misery loves company."
"Spanish","Misers' money goes twice to market."
"Spanish","Mischief comes by the pound and goes away by the ounce."
"Spanish","Mirrors were not made for the blind."
"Spanish","Milk the cow that standeth still."
"Spanish","Mildness governs more than anger."
"Spanish","Miguel, Miguel, you have no bees, and yet sell honey."
"Spanish","Michael is quits; he lost a ducat and gained a rabbit."
"Spanish","More grows in the garden than the gardener knows he has sown."
"Spanish","Neither sign a paper without reading it, nor drink water without seeing it."
"Spanish","Never put off today what you can put off tomorrow."
"Spanish","Never praise life in front of death, nor the beautiful day in front of night."
"Spanish","Never offer your hen for sale on a rainy day."
"Spanish","Never marry a widow unless her first husband was hanged."
"Spanish","Never let a poor man advise you on investments."
"Spanish","Never give advice unasked."
"Spanish","Never by-pass a town where a friend lives."
"Spanish","Never beg from one who was a beggar."
"Spanish","Never ask pardon before you are accused."
"Spanish","Never ask of him who has, but of him you know wishes you well."
"Spanish","Never advise someone to go to war or to get married."
"Spanish","Never advise anyone to go to war or to get married. Write down the advice of him who loves you, though you like it not at present. He that has no children brings them up well."
"Spanish","My neighbour's goat gives more milk than mine."
"Spanish","Never advise a man to go to the wars, or to marry."
"Spanish","On dry land even brackish water is good."
"Spanish","Neither serve one who has been a servant, nor beg of one who has been a beggar."
"Spanish","Neither handsome enough to kill, nor ugly enough to frighten."
"Spanish","Neither a good friar for friend, nor a bad one for enemy."
"Spanish","Needs must when the devil drives."
"Spanish","Needle and thread are half clothing."
"Spanish","Need makes the old woman trot."
"Spanish","Necessity is the mother of invention."
"Spanish","Name not a rope in his house that hanged himself."
"Spanish","Nae man can baith sup an' blaw thegither."
"Spanish","My word is my bond."
"Spanish","My teeth before my relations."
"Spanish","My teeth are nearer than my kindred."
"Spanish","Never advise anyone to go to war or to get married. Write down the advice of him who loves you, though you like it not at present. He that has no children brings them up well."
"Spanish","Possession and good right, with lance in hand."
"Spanish","Peter is so godly that God does not improve his condition."
"Spanish","Procrastination is the thief of time."
"Spanish","Problems don't seem so bad if you keep cheerful."
"Spanish","Prison and Lent were made for the poor."
"Spanish","Pray to God, but hammer away."
"Spanish","Praise yourself, basket, for I want to sell you."
"Spanish","Practice makes perfect."
"Spanish","Poverty is not a crime."
"Spanish","Poverty is no sin, but it is a branch of roguery."
"Spanish","Poverty is even worse if you have to sleep on the edge of a crowded bed."
"Spanish","Poverty does not destroy virtue, nor does wealth bestow it."
"Spanish","Poverty breeds discontent."
"Spanish","Punishment is a cripple, but it arrives."
"Spanish","Pound the garlic, Pedro, whilst I grate the cheese."
"Spanish","Put a beggar into your barn and he will make himself your heir."
"Spanish","Pluck it from among the thistles, and we will take it off your hands."
"Spanish","Plough wet or dry, and you will not have to kiss your neighbour's breech."
"Spanish","Plough or not plough, you must pay your rent."
"Spanish","Plough deep whilst sluggards sleep, And you shall have corn to sell and to keep."
"Spanish","Plough deep and you will have plenty of corn."
"Spanish","Plenty breed pride."
"Spanish","Please your eye and plague your heart."
"Spanish","Please the eye, and pick the purse."
"Spanish","Play's gude, while it is play."
"Spanish","Play with the fool at home, and he will play with you abroad."
"Spanish","Play with an ass and he will flirt his tail in your face."
"Spanish","On a hot day muffle yourself more."
"Spanish","Pour not water on a drowned mouse."
"Spanish","Salt split is never all gathered."
"Spanish","Sense comes with age."
"Spanish","Sell publicly and buy privately."
"Spanish","Self-knowledge is the beginning of self-improvement."
"Spanish","Self-knowledge is the beginning of self-improvement."
"Spanish","See, hear, and hold your tongue."
"Spanish","See to it that you have many books and many friends -- but be sure they are good ones."
"Spanish","See that you tie so that you can untie."
"Spanish","See how he has risen from a mayor to a hangman."
"Spanish","Secret of patience is to do something else in the meantime."
"Spanish","Secret of patience is to do something else in the meantime."
"Spanish","Seat yourself in your place and you will not be made to quit it."
"Spanish","Say nothing when you give -- only when you receive."
"Spanish","Prosperity forgets father and mother."
"Spanish","Say before they say."
"Spanish","Perseverance kills the game."
"Spanish","Said the frying pay to the kettle, Stand off, black bottom."
"Spanish","Rise early and watch, labour and catch."
"Spanish","Right overstrained turns to wrong."
"Spanish","Right or wrong, God aid our purpose."
"Spanish","Right or wrong, 'tis our house up to the roof."
"Spanish","Retreating is not the same as fleeing."
"Spanish","Repentance for silence is better than repentance for speaking."
"Spanish","Repentance costs dear."
"Spanish","Renounce the devil, and thou shalt wear a shabby coat."
"Spanish","Rats do not play tricks with kittens."
"Spanish","Rather mulberry than almond."
"Spanish","Raise ravens and they will peck our your eye."
"Spanish","Say nothing when you are giving -- only say something when you are receiving."
"Spanish","One falsehood leads to another."
"Spanish","Peter pinches me, and I like it."
"Spanish","One swallow does not make a summer."
"Spanish","One stroke on the nail and a hundred on the horseshoe."
"Spanish","One starts the game and another bags it."
"Spanish","One should eat sand rather than fall to villainy."
"Spanish","One man's punishment is a deterrent to many."
"Spanish","One man's meat is another man's poison."
"Spanish","One man beats the bush, another catcheth the bird."
"Spanish","One love drives out another."
"Spanish","One knavery is met by another."
"Spanish","One hand washes the other, and both the face."
"Spanish","One grievance borne, another follows."
"Spanish","One trick is met by another."
"Spanish","One fool makes a hundred."
"Spanish","One volunteer is worth two pressed men."
"Spanish","He who does not speak, God does not hear."
"Spanish","One eye on the frying-pan and the other on the cat."
"Spanish","He who does not tire, achieves."
"Spanish","One enemy is too many; and a hundred friends too few."
"Spanish","One drink is just right; two is too many; three are too few."
"Spanish","One cannot learn to swim in a field."
"Spanish","One cannot blow and swallow at the same time."
"Spanish","One can't ring the bells and walk in the procession."
"Spanish","One can never know too much."
"Spanish","One bee is better than a thousand flies."
"Spanish","One ass among many monkeys is grinned at by all."
"Spanish","Once a thief, always a thief."
"Spanish","One good forewit is worth two afterwits."
"Spanish","Out of the fullness of the heart the mouth speaks."
"Spanish","Peralvillo justice: hang a man first and try him afterwards."
"Spanish","Peralvillo justice: hang a man first and try him afterwards."
"Spanish","People are the architects of their own fortune."
"Spanish","Peace and patience, and death with penitence."
"Spanish","Pay what you owe, and be cured of your complaint."
"Spanish","Pay me back what you owe me; we'll talk later about what I owe you."
"Spanish","Patience, time, and money accommodate all things."
"Spanish","Patience begins with tears and ends with a smile."
"Spanish","Patched trousers, healthy testicles."
"Spanish","Paper and ink and little justice."
"Spanish","Painted flowers have no scent."
"Spanish","Paid workmen have no arms."
"Spanish","One takes care of the horse, another rides it."
"Spanish","Out of the fulness of the heart the mouth speaketh."
"Spanish","Memory is life's clock."
"Spanish","Out of sight out of mind."
"Spanish","Out of love for the ox, the wolf licks the yoke."
"Spanish","Out of debt, out of danger."
"Spanish","Other folks' cares kill the ass."
"Spanish","Order and do it, and you will be rid of anxiety."
"Spanish","Opportunity only knocks once."
"Spanish","Opportunity never knocks twice at any man's door."
"Spanish","Opportunity makes the thief."
"Spanish","Only God helps the badly dressed."
"Spanish","One's prog does not clog."
"Spanish","One wolf does not bite another."
"Spanish","One wedding brings another."
"Spanish","Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee."
"Spanish","Justice, but not in my own house."
"Spanish","It's like water off a duck's back."
"Spanish","Laws, like the spider's webs, catch the flies and let the hawk go free."
"Spanish","Laws, like the spider's web, catch the fly and let the hawk go free."
"Spanish","Men are just as God made them -- and a little worse."
"Spanish","Laughter is the best medicine."
"Spanish","Men can acquire knowledge, but not wisdom. Some of the greatest fools ever known were learned men."
"Spanish","Large thongs of another man's leather."
"Spanish","Know, cabbages, that there is spinach in the stew."
"Spanish","Learning is better than house and land."
"Spanish","Keeping a woman to her word is like trying to hold an eel by its tail."
"Spanish","Least said, soonest mended."
"Spanish","Jesting costs money."
"Spanish","Jest so that it may not turn to earnest."
"Spanish","Italians talk to women, Frenchmen to the learned, and the Spaniard talks to God."
"Spanish","It's the grinding of his teeth that awakes the blacksmith's dog, not the noise of the hammer."
"Spanish","It's not worth crying over spilt milk."
"Spanish","It's not the same to talk of bulls as to be in the bullring."
"Spanish","It's not the end of the world. Worse things happened at sea."
"Spanish","It's no crime to steal from a thief."
"Spanish","Let the miracle be wrought, though it be by the devil."
"Spanish","Kill and thou wilt be killed, and he will be killed who kills thee."
"Spanish","Let him who does not know you buy you."
"Spanish","Let the guts be full, for it is they that carry the legs."
"Spanish","Let the dogs bark; it's a sign that we are galloping ahead."
"Spanish","Let the dog bark so he don't bite me."
"Spanish","Let sleeping dogs lie."
"Spanish","Let not the tongue utter what the head must pay for."
"Spanish","Let no shovel-beaked bird ever enter your yard."
"Spanish","Let no one take a pawn that eats."
"Spanish","Let no one say, ""Of this water I will not drink."""
"Spanish","Learn from your tears and you will win laughing."
"Spanish","Let it be a husband, though it be but a log."
"Spanish","It's like talking to a brick wall."
"Spanish","Let him that has a mouth not say to another, Blow."
"Spanish","Let him play the instrument who knows how."
"Spanish","Let him not complain of being cheated who buys cloth by the pattern."
"Spanish","Let fools and wind pass."
"Spanish","Let every tub stand on its own bottom."
"Spanish","Let every sheep hang by it own foot."
"Spanish","Let every man mind his own business."
"Spanish","Let bygones be bygones."
"Spanish","Leave the jest at its best."
"Spanish","Let me go warm, and folks may laugh."
"Spanish","It is better to travel hopefully than to arrive."
"Spanish","It's more blessed to give than to receive."
"Spanish","It is not in the pilot's power to prevent the wind from blowing."
"Spanish","It is no fun to guard a house with two doors."
"Spanish","It is in vain to cast nets in a river where there are no fish."
"Spanish","It is in putting it into the oven that the loaf is made crooked."
"Spanish","It is good to have friends, even in hell."
"Spanish","It is good fishing in troubled waters."
"Spanish","It is fair and just to cheat the cheater."
"Spanish","It is not the fine, but the coarse and ill-spun that breaks."
"Spanish","It is better to weep with wise men than to laugh with fools."
"Spanish","It is not the hook or the rod, but the bait that lures."
"Spanish","It is better to strive with a stubborn ass than to carry the wood on one's back."
"Spanish","It is better to skip one meal than to consult a hundred doctors."
"Spanish","It is better to lose than lose more."
"Spanish","It is better to leap over the ditch than trust to the pleadings of good men."
"Spanish","It is better to have bread left over than to run short of wine."
"Spanish","It is better to conceal one's knowledge than to reveal one's ignorance."
"Spanish","It is better to be born a beggar than a fool."
"Spanish","It is better to be a mouse in a cat's mouth than a man in a lawyer's hands."
"Spanish","It is better if they say, ""He ran away here"" than ""He died here."""
"Spanish","It is courage that vanquishes in war, and not good weapons."
"Spanish","It never rains, but it pours."
"Spanish","It's just a question of putting two and two together."
"Spanish","It's enough to make a parson swear, or a quaker kick his mother."
"Spanish","It's dogged as does it."
"Spanish","It's better to be on your own than with people you don't like."
"Spanish","It's better to arrive on time than to be invited."
"Spanish","It's a Small world."
"Spanish","It will all come out in the soap-suds."
"Spanish","It takes two to quarrel, but only one to end it."
"Spanish","It is not necessary to fall into a well to know its depth."
"Spanish","It rains sorrow on him who is already wet."
"Spanish","Laws go the way kings direct."
"Spanish","It makes no difference. It's as broad as it is long."
"Spanish","It little avails the unfortunate to be brave."
"Spanish","It just makes things worse."
"Spanish","It is very savoury to eat scot free."
"Spanish","It is the truth that irritates a person."
"Spanish","It is the bait that lures, not the fisherman or the rod."
"Spanish","It is nothing, they are only thrashing my husband."
"Spanish","It is not the same thing to talk of bulls as to be in the bullring."
"Spanish","It is not the load but the overload that kills."
"Spanish","It takes taste to account for taste."
"Spanish","It is beautiful to do nothing and then rest afterwards."
"Spanish","Love does much, money does everything."
"Spanish","Marriage is a little bit like buying melons, you need a little luck."
"Spanish","Marriage is a sack full of ninety-nine snakes and one eel."
"Spanish","Married people need a home of their own."
"Spanish","Marry you son when you will, and your daughter when you can."
"Spanish","Marry, and grow tame."
"Spanish","Mary Busybody never wants a bad day, and Mary Drone has God to give and bring to her."
"Spanish","May God not so prosper our friends that they forget us."
"Spanish","Many kiss hands they would fain see chopped off."
"Spanish","Memory is everyone's friend -- it leaves you when you need it most."
"Spanish","Let the salad-maker be a spendthrift for oil, a miser for vinegar, a statesman for salt, and a madman for tossing."
"Spanish","Lovers always think that other people are blind."
"Spanish","Love, pain, and money cannot be kept secret; they soon betray themselves."
"Spanish","Love, grief, and money cannot be kept secret."
"Spanish","Love will find a way."
"Spanish","Love one that does not love you, answer one that does not call you, and you will run a fruitless race."
"Spanish","Love me love my dog."
"Spanish","Love laughs at locksmiths."
"Spanish","Love is like war: you begin when you like and leave off when you can."
"Spanish","Love is like a mousetrap: you go in when you want, but you don't get out when you like."
"Spanish","May the man be damned and never grow fat, Who wears two faces under one hat."
"Spanish","Man cannot live by bread alone."
"Spanish","Lovers quarrels are soon mended."
"Spanish","Lovers think that others have no eyes."
"Spanish","Luck comes to those who look after it."
"Spanish","Lying and gossiping go hand in hand."
"Spanish","Mad love--I for you, and you for another."
"Spanish","Make a bridge of silver for the flying enemy."
"Spanish","Make good flour, and do not blow the trumpet."
"Spanish","Make sure you have many books and many friends -- as long as they are good ones."
"Spanish","Many things grow in the garden that were never sown there."
"Spanish","Make your bargain before beginning to plow."
"Spanish","Love is like war, begin when you like and leave off when you can."
"Spanish","Man is fire, woman is tow; the devil comes with a bellows."
"Spanish","Man proposes, God disposes."
"Spanish","Man punishes the action, but God the intention."
"Spanish","Man, woman, and love created fire."
"Spanish","Manana is often the busiest day of the week."
"Spanish","Manual jokes are clown's jokes."
"Spanish","Manual play, clown's play."
"Spanish","Late children are early orphans."
"Spanish","Many hands make light work."
"Spanish","Make way for a madman and a bull."
"Spanish","Let's get things clear."
"Spanish","Lip courtesy avails much and costs little."
"Spanish","Love kills with golden arrows."
"Spanish","Like breeds like."
"Spanish","Like blood, like good, and like age, make the happiest marriage."
"Spanish","Like Banbury tinkers that in mending one hole make three."
"Spanish","Like a parakeet that says what he knows but doesn't know what he says."
"Spanish","Like a collier's sack, bad without and worse within."
"Spanish","Lightning never strikes twice in the same place."
"Spanish","Life without a friend is death without a witness."
"Spanish","Love can do much, money can do everything."
"Spanish","Liberty has no price."
"Spanish","Listeners hear no good of themselves."
"Spanish","Let your heart guide your head in evil matters."
"Spanish","Let what is lost go for God's sake."
"Spanish","Let those pater nosters be for your own soul."
"Spanish","Let there be writing before you pay, and receipt before you write."
"Spanish","Let there be no lack of food in the pigeon-house, and the pigeons will come to it."
"Spanish","Let there be food in the pigeon-house, and the pigeons will come to it."
"Spanish","Let them whip me in the market-place, provided it be not known at home."
"Spanish","Let them talk of men, and beg of me."
"Spanish","Let them be birds."
"Spanish","Let the sun shine on me, for I care not for the moon."
"Spanish","Life is a gift for which we pay dearly."
"Spanish","Long life to the conqueror."
"Spanish","Love and faith are seen in works."
"Spanish","Losers are always in the wrong."
"Spanish","Lose no rights, and commit no extortions."
"Spanish","Look not out for dead men's shoes."
"Spanish","Look not a gift horse in the mouth."
"Spanish","Look for the good, and let the bad come on its own."
"Spanish","Limit your desires and you will improve your health."
"Spanish","Look after the pennies, and the pounds will look after themselves."
"Spanish","Listeners never hear any good of themselves."
"Spanish","Long absent, soon forgotten."
"Spanish","Little bird, little nest."
"Spanish","Live with wolves, and you learn to howl."
"Spanish","Live and let live. There's nothing so queer as folk."
"Spanish","Little strokes fell great oaks."
"Spanish","Little by little one goes far."
"Spanish","Little birds that can sing and won't sing must be made to sing."
"Spanish","Little birds may pick a dead lion."
"Spanish","Look for the good and let the bad things come on their own."
"Spanish","Little beard, little modesty."
"Spanish","Little and often fills the purse."
"Spanish, Italian","He who denies all confesses all."
"Spanish, Portuguese","Drink nothing without seeing it, sign nothing without reading it."
"Sri Lankan","Wisdom can be found travelling."
"Sudan","Do not call to a dog with a whip in your hand."
"Sudanese","A termite can do nothing to a stone but lick it."
"Sudanese","When a hen is brooding, another hen cannot sit on her eggs."
"Sudanese","When Allah made Sudan, he laughed."
"Sudanese","When the monkey can't reach the ripe banana with his hand, he says it is not sweet."
"Sudanese","You can't feed your donkey only when you need to ride it."
"Sudanese","We desire to bequest two things to our children--the first one is roots; the other one is wings."
"Sudanese","Eggs and iron must not be in the same bag."
"Sudanese","Don't cough in a hiding place."
"Sudanese","Even if a log lies in the water for a long time, it does not become a crocodile."
"Sudanese","If you think you are too small to make a difference, try sleeping in a closed room with a mosquito."
"Sudanese","If you do something wrong to me, I forgive you. But I know that someday God will make you hit the son of a chief on the head. Then the chief will punish you."
"Sudanese","If you can walk, you can dance; If you can talk, you can sing."
"Sudanese","If you are wearing shoes, you don't fear the thorns."
"Sudanese","If our feet leave the earth we no longer live in peace."
"Sudanese","If Nakedness promises you a piece of cloth, ask him his name."
"Sudanese","If a dog bites you and you don't bite him back, it will say that you have no teeth."
"Sudanese","Even the sharpest ear cannot hear an ant singing."
"Sudanese","Let rats fight with each other."
"Sudanese","Ebb does not follow ebb -- flood is in between."
"Sudanese","Let rats shoot arrows at each other."
"Sudanese","Better a meal of vegetables where there is love than a fatted ox where there is hatred."
"Sudanese","A young crocodile does not cry when he falls in the water."
"Sudanese","A termite can do nothing to a stone save lick it."
"Sudanese","A stranger does not share the monkey."
"Sudanese","A naked man will often laugh at someone with torn clothes."
"Sudanese","A little shrub may grow into a tree."
"Sudanese","A friend who visits you when you are suffering is your best friend."
"Sudanese","A dog cannot carry its puppies on its back."
"Sudanese","A child is a child of everyone."
"Sudanese","A big chair does not make a king."
"Sudanese","Empty stomachs have no ears."
"Sudanese","That which does the cultivating is in the stomach."
"Sudanese","The bush fowl saw the chicken being carved up and laughed. The chicken told the bush fowl to stop laughing. For the same hands now carving up the chicken would be used to carve up the bush fowl."
"Sudanese","It is sad when the elephant dies, but the whole tribe can feed on it."
"Sudanese","The hand suffers at work, but the mouth still must eat."
"Sudanese","Two men in a burning house must not stop to argue."
"Sudanese","The soup would be none the worse for more meat."
"Sudanese","Someone who is pointing his finger to another person is not always aware that the four remaining fingers are pointing in his direction."
"Sudanese","Salt comes from north, gold from south and silver from the land of Whites, but the Word of God, the famous things, histories and fairy tales, we only find them in Timbuktu."
"Sudanese","Our wasted days are the days we never laugh."
"Sudanese","Not all the trees in the forest make good firewood."
"Sudanese","They have taken the cow by the horns in order to milk it better."
"Sudanese","No one likes to eat crumbs from a feast; everyone likes to sit at the table."
"Sudanese","Love for something makes a man blind and deaf."
"Sudanese","The poor are excused from washing with soap."
"Sufi","We do not walk on our legs, but on our will."
"Sufi","There wouldn't be such a thing as counterfeit gold if there were no real gold somewhere."
"Sufi","We don't kill a pig every day."
"Sufi","There wouldn't be such a thing as counterfeit gold if there were no real gold somewhere."
"Sufi","There wouldn't be such a thing as counterfeit gold if there were no real gold somewhere."
"Sufi","We don't kill a pig every day."
"Sufi","We do not walk on our legs, but on our will."
"Sukuma","The son of a zebra also has stripes."
"Sukuma","For a rash to heal, you must stop scratching it."
"Sukuma","Little by little the mouse finishes the hide."
"Sukuma","The wind does not break a tree that can bend."
"Sukuma","Those who arrive to the spring first, drink the purest water."
"Sukuma","You can run away from your elder, but she'll still out-think you."
"Sukuma","In anger there is no intelligence."
"Sumerian","If you lie and then tell the truth, the truth will be considered a lie."
"Sumerian","If you lie and then tell the truth, the truth will be considered a lie."
"Surinam","If a person shaves you with a razor, do not shave him with broken glass."
"Surinam","If a person shave you with a razor, do not shave him with broken glass."
"Surinam","If a person shaves you with a razor, do not shave him with broken glass."
"Surinam","If a person shave you with a razor, do not shave him with broken glass."
"Suyin","Faith is confirmed by the heart, confessed by the tongue, and acted upon by the body."
"Suyin","Faith is confirmed by the heart, confessed by the tongue, and acted upon by the body."
"Swahili","Aiming isn't hitting."
"Swahili","Accidents will happen."
"Swahili","If the hyena eats the sick man, he will eat the whole one."
"Swahili","Abuses are the result of seeing one another too often."
"Swahili","Haste is from the Devil."
"Swahili","Haste does not result in prosperity."
"Swahili","Haste makes waste and waste makes want."
"Swahili","Haste makes waste and waste makes want."
"Swahili","He who devours his neighbour's fowl, its foot prints will give him away."
"Swahili","He who asks for salt does so for his own cooking pot."
"Swahili","Haste is from the Devil."
"Swahili","Haste has no blessing."
"Swahili","He laughs at scar who has received no wound."
"Swahili","He that does not fear a bull must be a bull himself."
"Swahili","He wanders around by day a lot, learns a lot."
"Swahili","Have you changed into a cuttle-fish, you heap live embers on yourself?."
"Swahili","He who becomes blind in his old age does not lose his way."
"Swahili","He who boasts of his ancestry unduly will bring plenty of trouble upon himself."
"Swahili","He who climbs a ladder comes down again."
"Swahili","He who dances at home will be rewarded."
"Swahili","He who desires to make something does not announce his intentions, just turns them into actions."
"Swahili","Haste does not result in prosperity."
"Swahili","Every vessel has its own waves."
"Swahili","He who dips his finger into honey does not dip it once."
"Swahili","He who digs a pit will fall into it himself."
"Swahili","He who desires all, misses all."
"Swahili","For a fly to die on an ulcer is not bad."
"Swahili","He who does not admit defeat is not a sportsman."
"Swahili","Where there are many fowls, millet is not scattered."
"Swahili","Effort will not counter faith."
"Swahili","Every bird flies with its own wings."
"Swahili","Every door with its own key."
"Swahili","Every who streches a skin on a drum, pulls the skin own his own side."
"Swahili","Eyes have no screens, they see all that is within view."
"Swahili","Everyone should contribute when collection is made."
"Swahili","Follow bees and you will get honey."
"Swahili","Happiness requires something to do, something to love and something to hope for."
"Swahili","For him who is accustomed to taking giving away is a battle."
"Swahili","Give a wizard a child to bring up."
"Swahili","Giving advice but no one listens."
"Swahili","God does not concell a liar."
"Swahili","Good and evil will never mix."
"Swahili","Gratitude of a donkey is a kick."
"Swahili","Great wit drives away wisdom."
"Swahili","Had you known what bees eat, you would not have tasted the honey."
"Swahili","Fire does not beget fire in the end it begets ashes."
"Swahili","When a child cries for a razor give it him."
"Swahili","Voluntary is better than force."
"Swahili","When you mention a snake, have a stick ready in your hand."
"Swahili","When you go among one-eyed people, put out your own eye."
"Swahili","When you are seized, hold on yourself."
"Swahili","When you are eating with a blind man, do not touch his hand."
"Swahili","When tide is high, it ebbs."
"Swahili","When the head of the family dies, that family breaks up."
"Swahili","when the cat goes away, mice reign."
"Swahili","When brothers quarrel, take a hoe and go and dig; and when they make it up, take a basket and patter the crop."
"Swahili","When an oxhorn of a news man is sounded, something is wrong."
"Swahili","When a poor man gets something he boasts of his new wealth."
"Swahili","When your Companion is being shaved, put water."
"Swahili","When a fool becomes enlightened, the wise man is in trouble."
"Swahili","Where there are experts there will be no lack ot learners."
"Swahili","When a bull gets his leg broken, he is sure to go back to his yard."
"Swahili","What the heart desires is medicine to it."
"Swahili","what is not eaten by a man, let the devil eat it."
"Swahili","What is benig talked about is here, and if its not it's comming around behind."
"Swahili","What beats you is what teaches you."
"Swahili","Wealth, if you use it, comes to an end; learning, if you use it, increases."
"Swahili","Water in a coconut shell is like an ocean to an ant."
"Swahili","water follows current."
"Swahili","Water flows down the valley does not climb the hill."
"Swahili","War has no eyes."
"Swahili","Where it slopes down is where it slopes up."
"Swahili","When a plate is covered, its contents are hidden."
"Swahili","Who digs the well should not be refused water."
"Swahili","You will not necessarily get what you desire, you will get what is appointed you."
"Swahili","You may climb a thorn tree, and be unable to come down."
"Swahili","You dont throw stones at an approching craclin noise in the bush wait and see what is it first."
"Swahili","You dont take viengeance on silliness."
"Swahili","You canot know the bugs of a bed that you have not lain on."
"Swahili","You cannot know the defects of a house you have not slept in."
"Swahili","You can not know the extent of water in a pond that you have never been to."
"Swahili","You are blaming the hawk, the falcon is killing the chickens."
"Swahili","Work the clay while it is still wet."
"Swahili","Words alone wont break bones."
"Swahili","With many captains, the ship does not sail properly."
"Swahili","When you play with a lion, do not put your hand in its mouth."
"Swahili","Who tells the truth is never wrong."
"Swahili","Usage is like law."
"Swahili","Where you have an enemy, you will also surely arid a friend."
"Swahili","Where they is mourning someone has died."
"Swahili","Where there's a will there's a way."
"Swahili","Where there trees, there are no builders."
"Swahili","Where there is finery, there lies the snare."
"Swahili","Where there is a will there is a way."
"Swahili","Where there are plenty of trees there are no builders."
"Swahili","Where there are old people, nothing goes wrong."
"Swahili","Where there are many, nothing goes wrong."
"Swahili","Where there are many there is much."
"Swahili","Where there are many people, there God is."
"Swahili","Why drive away fowls from the dung you do not eat yourself?."
"Swahili","He who is after two things at the same time, one will surely escape him."
"Swahili","Wait a minute! wait a minute! harms the stomach."
"Swahili","He who riducules a deformed person becomes deformed himself."
"Swahili","He who ridicules the good will be overtaken by evil."
"Swahili","He who requires what is under the bed must bend for it."
"Swahili","He who renounces his ancestrey is like a slave."
"Swahili","He who praises rain has been rained on."
"Swahili","He who plays with mud will get splashed."
"Swahili","He who nurses vegeance is not called wise."
"Swahili","He who likes to eat cows hump will not fail to grow fat."
"Swahili","He who laughs at a cripple will not die without becoming himself."
"Swahili","He who is used to strangle, cannot slaughter."
"Swahili","He who slaughters a beast does not hesitate about skinning it."
"Swahili","He who is carried on the back must cling on."
"Swahili","He who sows disorderly fashion will eat likewise."
"Swahili","He who has an axe does not lack firewood."
"Swahili","He who goes to the quarterdeck and forecastle will return to the hold eventualy."
"Swahili","He who fixes his mind much on water ends up not drinkink it."
"Swahili","He who fights with a wall will only hurt his hand."
"Swahili","He who fears the crying of a child, will cry himself."
"Swahili","He who enjoys the first fruit of a country is son of that country."
"Swahili","He who eats with you will not die with you except he who was born with you."
"Swahili","He who eats bitter things gets sweet things too."
"Swahili","He who eats another mans food will have his own food eaten by others."
"Swahili","He who earns his living in the sun, eats in the shade."
"Swahili","He who earns calamity, eats it with his family."
"Swahili","He who is expled from home has no where to go."
"Swahili","Things dont just happen by accidents."
"Swahili","Two crocodiles cannot agree."
"Swahili","Two bulls do not live in the same shade."
"Swahili","Treat your guest as a guest for two days; on the third day, give him a hoe."
"Swahili","Too many captains the ship rolls."
"Swahili","Today is today who says tommorrow is a liar."
"Swahili","To stumble is not falling down but it is to go forward."
"Swahili","To run is not neccessarily to arrive."
"Swahili","To live long is to see much."
"Swahili","To get lost is to learn the way."
"Swahili","To every child his own neck ornament."
"Swahili","He who selects coconut with great care ends up getting a bad coconut."
"Swahili","To a physician a sick man is a garden."
"Swahili","He who drinks water with one hand finds out his thirst is still there."
"Swahili","They is no secret between two people."
"Swahili","They is no incence for something rotting."
"Swahili","They is no distance that has no end."
"Swahili","There is weeping when separated, there is quarreling when together."
"Swahili","There is no bad patience."
"Swahili","Hurry hurry has no blessings."
"Swahili","How can you be burnt by chilies which you have not eaten?."
"Swahili","Hold him! Hold him! and you yourself after him."
"Swahili","Hearing is not seeing."
"Swahili","He who who flings a stone amid a crowd, does not know the it hits."
"Swahili","He who trusts in God lacks nothing."
"Swahili","He who spekes ill of someone close to you in your presence sends you to tell him so."
"Swahili","To a seamen of Kwale, death by water is common experience."
"Swahili","A thief is caught by his fellow thief."
"Swahili","Are you a dugong, you cannot bear a wound?."
"Swahili","A traveller is poor, even though he being a ruler."
"Swahili","An evil Indian but his bussiness is good."
"Swahili","An infidel who does you good turn is not like a Muslim who does not."
"Swahili","An ivory tooth is not cure for the lost tooth."
"Swahili","An obstinete child does not suffer save on the day of festival."
"Swahili","An old man always keeps something in reserve."
"Swahili","An elephant hunter usually gets killed by an elephant."
"Swahili","Are you a duck your mind is with your children?."
"Swahili","An ear dots not go to bed hungry."
"Swahili","Are you a Jeta, you do not move?."
"Swahili","Arrogance is not gentlemanly."
"Swahili","As you bring up a child, so he will be."
"Swahili","As you tapped it you will drink."
"Swahili","Asking questions is not silly."
"Swahili","Better an intelligent enemy than a stupid friend."
"Swahili","Better delay and get there."
"Swahili","Anger brings loss."
"Swahili","Accidents will happen."
"Swahili","A thief finds another one."
"Swahili","A vessel running agroud has no captain."
"Swahili","A warning to the wise is a blessing, to the fool an insult."
"Swahili","A well-worn coir-rope is better than a new rope made from raffia."
"Swahili","A wepon which you don't have in hand wont kill a snake."
"Swahili","A wife is like clothes and banana plant needs weeding."
"Swahili","An empty hand is not licked."
"Swahili","Abuses are the result of seeing one another too often."
"Swahili","Blessings are better than wealth."
"Swahili","After distress, solace."
"Swahili","After hardship comes relief."
"Swahili","Aiming isn't hitting."
"Swahili","Along silence followed by mighty noise."
"Swahili","An aimless wanderer wears away his legs."
"Swahili","An artful bird can be trapped in a rotten cage."
"Swahili","An axe with rio handle does not split firewood."
"Swahili","A witchdoctor does not cure himself."
"Swahili","Don't travel under another's lucky star."
"Swahili","Do not neglect the undoing for the setting."
"Swahili","Do not pretend to be a white fowl."
"Swahili","Do not put a grass turban on my head."
"Swahili","Do not roast baobab kernels and leave those who have teeth chewing."
"Swahili","Do not try to fight a lion if you are not one yourself."
"Swahili","Do not wake one who is sleeping; you will fall asleep yourself."
"Swahili","Better to stumble with toe than toungue."
"Swahili","Don't quarrel with the coconut-palm climber: the coconut has been eaten by the moon."
"Swahili","Do not abuse palm-wine tappers while drunkness persists."
"Swahili","Eating is sweet, digging is weariness."
"Swahili","Your companion's body is beside."
"Swahili","Your companion's burden is a load of kapok."
"Swahili","Your own bad place is far better than your companion's place."
"Swahili","Your own small place is not like a big place of your companion."
"Swahili","A bad job is not as wothless as a good game."
"Swahili","That which eats you up is in your clothing."
"Swahili","Don't plant a seed in the sea."
"Swahili","Courage is not the same as fighting someone stronger than you."
"Swahili","A traveller does not make a mess where he had made a camp as he might one day come back."
"Swahili","Blood is thicker than water."
"Swahili","Borrowing is like a wedding, repaying is like mourning."
"Swahili","Bribery is the enemy of justice."
"Swahili","Charity is the matter of the heart not of the pocket."
"Swahili","Clouds are the sign of rain."
"Swahili","Constant dipping will empty goud of honey."
"Swahili","Do not forget what it is to be a sailor because of being a captain yourself."
"Swahili","Cooling the tongs is not end of forging."
"Swahili","Do not compete with Kari, Kari comes from God."
"Swahili","Death has its advantages too ie it benifits those who inherit."
"Swahili","Death is blind."
"Swahili","Desire first, death afterwards."
"Swahili","Dirty clothes are washed in the backyard."
"Swahili","Do me a favour during a rainy season and I shall do the same to you during the dry season."
"Swahili","Do not abuse midwives while child-bearing continues."
"Swahili","Big houses conceal a lot."
"Swahili","Constant rubbing of a rope will cut a stone."
"Swahili","A guine- fowl not lay eggs on strange places."
"Swahili","A tree of your height cannot shade you."
"Swahili","A fly does not mind dying in coconut cream."
"Swahili","A good day becomes evident in the morning."
"Swahili","A good name shines in the dark."
"Swahili","A good place you don't go to is a good place: if you go too often, it isn't a good place any longer."
"Swahili","A good purpose is like a doctor and evil purpose corrupts."
"Swahili","A fisheman knows where to look for an octopus."
"Swahili","A goshawk is an egg child, if sleeps hungry its his own fault."
"Swahili","A dying ear does not feel the medicine."
"Swahili","A handfull of water can not be grasped."
"Swahili","A handsome finger gets the ring."
"Swahili","A hasty person misses the sweet things."
"Swahili","A hen does not break her own eggs."
"Swahili","A hen's kick does not hurt her chick."
"Swahili","A hungry man observes no taboos."
"Swahili","A hunter is not afraid of thorns."
"Swahili","A good thing sells it self a bad one advertises it self."
"Swahili","A connoisseur never comes to the end of desire."
"Swahili","A big heart is better than a big brain."
"Swahili","A bird that imitates others does not get used to a place."
"Swahili","A blind person does not forget his walking stick."
"Swahili","A boat doesn't go forward if each one is rowing their own way."
"Swahili","A brother is a cooking pot, and a neighbour is a cooking pot lid."
"Swahili","A cat belonging to the house is not chased away."
"Swahili","A flag follows the direction of the wind."
"Swahili","A chick is not taught how to scratch up the ground."
"Swahili","A letter from the heart can be read on the face."
"Swahili","A cow is not oppressed by its own hump."
"Swahili","A dancer will not become crippled for dancing calls for grace."
"Swahili","A dead person is not asked for a shroud."
"Swahili","A distant fire does not burn."
"Swahili","A double jointed arm follows the leg action."
"Swahili","A drowning man catches at the water."
"Swahili","A drum that is sounded loudly will soon split."
"Swahili","A cat can never he made to lie on its back."
"Swahili","A sinking vessel needs no navigation."
"Swahili","A regular path has no signpost."
"Swahili","A reserve will not decay."
"Swahili","A rope parts where it is thinnest."
"Swahili","A rotten coconut in a heap spoils the wholesome ones."
"Swahili","A satisfied person does not know the hungry man."
"Swahili","A sick person is not asked for porridje."
"Swahili","A husband of a mother is a father."
"Swahili","A single hand can not slaughter a cow."
"Swahili","A poor man has no contempt."
"Swahili","A small pot boils quickly."
"Swahili","A son will be what he was taught."
"Swahili","A stranger is like a white fowl."
"Swahili","A tailor does not select his cloth."
"Swahili","A thief is a rogue but the one who repays is a gentleman."
"Swahili","A thing that is firmly fixed cannot be dislodged except with much trouble."
"Swahili","A tongue has no bone."
"Swahili","A single hand can not nurse a child."
"Swahili","A patient man will eat ripe fruits."
"Swahili","A barber does not shave himself."
"Swahili","A log can not move save by the help of rollers."
"Swahili","A messenger is not killed."
"Swahili","A mud hut cannot withstand great shocks."
"Swahili","A new fowl always has string around its legs."
"Swahili","A new thing is a souce of joy even if is sore."
"Swahili","A nice day, a gift for a street peddlar."
"Swahili","A potter eats from a potsherd."
"Swahili","A noisy person is harmless."
"Swahili","A por man with his child a rich man with his wealth."
"Swahili","A person does not objects to being called, he objects to what he is called for."
"Swahili","A person is asked about his dress not what he has eaten."
"Swahili","A person scratches himself where his hand can reach."
"Swahili","A person who is in too much of a hurry stubs his toe."
"Swahili","A pit of the tongue cannot be covered up by the hand."
"Swahili","A poor man does not pick up things if does they say he stole them."
"Swahili","A lazy person with a nephwe does not eat dry rice."
"Swahili","A noisy drumming does not last long."
"Swahili","Mouth is the home of words."
"Swahili","Patience attracts happiness; it brings near that which is far."
"Swahili","One fault does not warrant divorce of a wife."
"Swahili","Old rust is for the stranger."
"Swahili","Old droppings do not stink."
"Swahili","Not all that have claws are lions."
"Swahili","Nobleness is not noble ancestry."
"Swahili","One fire brand after another keeps fire burning."
"Swahili","Never give up your own old mat for a better prayer mat which you see passing."
"Swahili","One follows bees will never fail to get honey."
"Swahili","Little by little fills up the measure."
"Swahili","Life can be understood backwards, but we live it forwards."
"Swahili","Let us see then tell; hearing is not seeing."
"Swahili","Let the guest come so that the host may benifit."
"Swahili","Let a strong man pass."
"Swahili","Leave well alone! You wont improve matters by going on tinkering."
"Swahili","Kiss the hand you can not cut."
"Swahili","Nine is near ten."
"Swahili","One who keeps silent, endures."
"Swahili","Out of sight out of mind."
"Swahili","One's foul smelling does not sicken one self but merely disguts one."
"Swahili","One with a scar, do not think him healed."
"Swahili","One who walks with no reason is not like one who sits without reason, the one who walks might pick up something."
"Swahili","One who talks to himself can not be wrong.Ie no one to correct him."
"Swahili","One who stores half grown fruit eats it rotten."
"Swahili","One finger canot kill a louse."
"Swahili","One who rides two horses at once will split asunder."
"Swahili","Its nice throw a spear to a pig, but painful when thrown to you."
"Swahili","One who hides private parts wont get a child."
"Swahili","One who has little relish must eat sparingly."
"Swahili","One who has eyes is not told to look."
"Swahili","One who has been bitten by a snake, when he sees grass he he gets afraid."
"Swahili","One who gives birth cannot avoid defilement."
"Swahili","One who curses someone in public, brings it on himself in private."
"Swahili","One who always depends on his brother will die poor."
"Swahili","One who selects his hoe is not real farmer."
"Swahili","If a native of pemba can get a log he does not relive himself on the ground.ie nothing but the best."
"Swahili","If you are astonished at Moses' deeds, you will be more astonished at Pharaoh's. Not-Moses declared himself to he a prophet, but Pharaoh declared himself to be God."
"Swahili","If you are absent you lose your share."
"Swahili","If you are a flag follow the wind."
"Swahili","If water is split, it can not be gathered up."
"Swahili","If the palmwine tapper is praised, he dilutes the palm-wine with water."
"Swahili","If the hyena eats the sick man, he will eat the whole one."
"Swahili","Kindness does not go rotten."
"Swahili","If an arrow goes into a forest it is not lost."
"Swahili","If you do not fill up a crack, you will have to build a wall."
"Swahili","ie One eye of a master sees more than four of a servent."
"Swahili","I shall not suffer illness while doctors abound."
"Swahili","I have anointed you with kohl, do you, in return, anoint me with pepper?."
"Swahili","I ate honey in my childhood, and its sweetness is still in my tooth."
"Swahili","I am a mud hut, I can not stand shocks."
"Swahili","A bad brother is far better than no brother."
"Swahili","The ape does not see his own backside, he Sees his companion's."
"Swahili","If the hours are long enough and the pay is short enough, someone will say it's women's work."
"Swahili","If you see something and say nothing, you will have nothing to suffer for."
"Swahili","If you see vessels afloat, remember that they have had to be built."
"Swahili","It is not hard to nurse a pregnency, but it is hard to bring up a child."
"Swahili","It is better to lose your eyes than to lose your heart."
"Swahili","It is better to build bridges than walls."
"Swahili","It is better for the eyes to die than the heart."
"Swahili","If you want to eat pig, choose one which is fat."
"Swahili","If you want beauty, you must be injured."
"Swahili","If you are offered a span, do not take a couple of yards."
"Swahili","If you take of your clothes for water you must bathe."
"Swahili","If you destroy a bridge, be sure you can swim."
"Swahili","If you love other people's children, you will love your own even more."
"Swahili","If you find your own house is on fire, you may be sure that your neighbour's house is burning much more fiercely."
"Swahili","If you find the river flooded, wait."
"Swahili","If you dont fill a crack, you will build a wall."
"Swahili","If you don't know death look at the grave."
"Swahili","If you do not seal the holes, you will have to rebuild the walls."
"Swahili","Joke, joke, discharges pus."
"Swahili","If you throw a millipede you should throw away the stick you picked it up with."
"Swahili","The gratitude that bees receive is the smoke that people use to expel them and get at their honey."
"Swahili","The one who is caught with the skin is the thief."
"Swahili","The one who has helped others climb the ladder gets kicked in the teeth."
"Swahili","The one who buries ivory is the one to dig it up."
"Swahili","The maker of wooden spoons saves his hand from fire."
"Swahili","The lion which moves silently is the one that eats meat."
"Swahili","The laughter of a child lights up the house."
"Swahili","The death of not a relative is a wedding.Compared to a death of a relative."
"Swahili","The Iabour of childbirth is known to the mother."
"Swahili","The poison for a word is a word."
"Swahili","The fear of God is not wearing a white turban."
"Swahili","The farmer is one but those who eat fruits of his labour are many."
"Swahili","The evil spirit of a man is a man."
"Swahili","The eater of a goat pays back a cow."
"Swahili","The ear does not surpass the head."
"Swahili","The drunkard's money is being consumed by palm-wine trapper."
"Swahili","The destroyer of a country is a citizen of that country."
"Swahili","The juice of an Immature coconut Is not like the real coconut juice."
"Swahili","The timid crow withdraws his wings from harm."
"Swahili","If you see amber, ambergis is behind."
"Swahili","Patience is the key to tranquility."
"Swahili","The way of a liar is short."
"Swahili","There are three things which if one does not know, one cannot live long in the world: what is too much for one, what is too little for one, and what is just right for one."
"Swahili","The washer of corpses does no harm to the dead."
"Swahili","The washer conceals the corpse."
"Swahili","The village cock does not crow in town."
"Swahili","The path of a liar is short."
"Swahili","The tongue hurts more than the teeth."
"Swahili","The patient eat ripe."
"Swahili","The teeth of a dog do not lock together."
"Swahili","The space under the bed is like a mat."
"Swahili","The skin of yesteday's sugarcane is a havest to an ant."
"Swahili","The sick man is the garden of the physicians."
"Swahili","the remedy of fire is fire."
"Swahili","The process of eating is not taught to a child."
"Swahili","The prayer of the chicken hawk does not get him the chicken."
"Swahili","The very thing you do not want, that is what pleases god."
"Swahili","Running on the roof finishes at the edge."
"Swahili","Take one, not that you may return with ten."
"Swahili","Stretch your legs the length of your bed."
"Swahili","Stretch hide while it is still green."
"Swahili","Songs learnt from outside sources are not used at a dance so long."
"Swahili","Slow moving lion eats meat."
"Swahili","Refusing and wanting at the same time."
"Swahili","Shark is the famous one in sea the but they many others."
"Swahili","Talk of the devil, and you'll hear the rustle of his wings."
"Swahili","Scabics are given to him who has no fingernails."
"Swahili","She who is pregnant, is pregnant-even though she wrap herself in an 'mkaja'."
"Swahili","Rice is all one but they are many ways of cooking it."
"Swahili","Regrets are like a child, They come some considerable time after event."
"Swahili","The day you go naked, is the day you will meet your father."
"Swahili","The real eater is todays eater not yesterdays."
"Swahili","Put a riddle to a fool a clever person will solve it."
"Swahili","Pleasent words will draw the snake from its hole."
"Swahili","Pemba does not run away fro a small shower."
"Swahili","Serve even an unbeliever to attain your own ends."
"Swahili","The blindnes of that one is his good fortune."
"Swahili","The corpse-washer is washed."
"Swahili","The child who grows up with you is your fellow."
"Swahili","the curse of the fowl does not bother the kite."
"Swahili","Shadow of a stick canot protect one from the sun."
"Swahili","That is fashionable in town is never prohibited."
"Swahili","The child of a snake is a snake."
"Swahili","The carrier of a secret message is not told its meaning."
"Swahili","The creaking of the door deprives me of no sleep."
"Swahili","The brotherhood of coconuts is a meeting in the cook-in pot."
"Swahili","The child of lion is a lion."
"Swahili","The begining of a mat-making is two slips of raffia leaf."
"Swahili","The begining of a dance is lele."
"Swahili","The begining is bud the end is coconut."
"Swahili","The beareved begins the wailing latter others join."
"Swahili","That which is written by God is what is."
"Swahili","The area covered by your life is not as important as what you can build on it."
"Swedish","A peacock has too little in its head, too much in its tail."
"Swedish","Fear may force a man to cast beyond the moon."
"Swedish","Thou are a bitter bird, said the raven to the starling."
"Swedish","Thou hast a head and so hath a pin."
"Swedish","Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn."
"Swedish","What breaks in a moment may take years to mend."
"Swedish","What can you expect from a pig but a grunt?"
"Swedish","What can't be alter'd must be borne, not blamed."
"Swedish","When a blind man carries a lame man, both go forward."
"Swedish","The best place to find a helping hand is at the end of your own arm."
"Swedish","Wisdom is in the head and not in the beard."
"Swedish","Those who wish to sing always find a song."
"Swedish","Fear less, hope more, eat less, chew more, whine less, breathe more, talk less, say more, hate less, love more, and all good things will be yours."
"Swedish","Love is like dew that falls on both nettles and lilies."
"Swedish","Fact is stranger than fiction."
"Swedish","Worry often gives a small thing a big shadow."
"Swedish","Eyes that do not cry, do not see."
"Swedish","Wisdom is in the head and not in the beard."
"Swedish","Worry often gives a small thing a big shadow."
"Swedish","When the blind man carries the lame man, both go forward."
"Swedish","He who cannot keep silence cannot speak."
"Swedish","The afternoon knows what the morning never suspected."
"Swedish","Sweep first before your own door, before you sweep the doorsteps of your neighbors."
"Swedish","A peacock has too little in its head, too much in its tail."
"Swedish","Advice should be viewed from behind."
"Swedish","Those who wish to sing always find a song."
"Swedish","One should go invited to a friend in good fortune, and uninvited in misfortune."
"Swedish","Sweep first before your own door, before you sweep the doorsteps of your neighbors."
"Swedish","Empty barrels make the most noise."
"Swedish","Love is like dew that falls on both nettles and lilies."
"Swedish","Worrying never did anyone any good."
"Swedish","Take with you an onion to the funeral."
"Swedish","The bee without a sting collects no honey."
"Swedish","Sweep first before your own door, before you sweep the doorsteps of your neighbors."
"Swedish","The bee has a sting but honey too."
"Swedish","That was on the hair."
"Swedish","The bearskin does not bite."
"Swedish","The afternoon knows what the morning never suspected."
"Swedish","That our hands show signs of our work, is nothing to be ashamed of."
"Swedish","The appetite grows while one eats;."
"Swedish","Take the custom where you come."
"Swedish","Strike while the iron is hot."
"Swedish","Sour said the fox about rowanberries."
"Swedish","Small wells are soon drained."
"Swedish","Small pots also have ears."
"Swedish","Slowly but surely."
"Swedish","Slander makes friends part."
"Swedish","Shared joy is a double joy; shared sorrow is half a sorrow."
"Swedish","The best place to find a helping hand is at the end of your own arm."
"Swedish","Shared joy is double joy and shared sorrow is half-sorrow."
"Swedish","Shoot the bear before you skin it."
"Swedish","Shoemaker, stick to your last."
"Swedish","Shared joy is double joy. Shared sorrow is half sorrow."
"Swedish","Small tuft often overturns a big load."
"Swedish","The end is good, everything is good."
"Swedish","The more chefs, the better the soup."
"Swedish","The modest one gets nothing."
"Swedish","The old have the calendar in their bodies."
"Swedish","Now the fairytale is over."
"Swedish","Seriousness and pleasure should thrive together."
"Swedish","The miser is his own mother-in-law."
"Swedish","The master has long arms, but they don't reach heaven."
"Swedish","The joke is the weapon of the witty; being serious is the shield of the stupid."
"Swedish","The is unnecessary to make a fuss of any sort of thrash."
"Swedish","The first at the mill can grind the first."
"Swedish","The faults of others are the best teachers."
"Swedish","The burnt child shuns the fire."
"Swedish","The dogs in Lund bark."
"Swedish","The deepest well can also be drained."
"Swedish","The death of one - the bread of the other."
"Swedish","The day we fear hastens toward us, the day we long for creeps."
"Swedish","The damage of another is soon forgotten."
"Swedish","The cure for anything is salt water - sweat, tears, or the sea."
"Swedish","The cow of another has always a bigger udder."
"Swedish","The child's bottom and April weather arre not to be trusted."
"Swedish","The child is the father of the man."
"Swedish","The butterfly often forgets it was a caterpillar."
"Swedish","The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence."
"Swedish","Not everything that glimmers is gold."
"Swedish","Only child, dear child."
"Swedish","One time is no time - two times is a habit."
"Swedish","One talks against praise in order to hear it once again"
"Swedish","One should go out of the way for little children and drunks."
"Swedish","One should go invited to a friend in good fortune, and uninvited in misfortune."
"Swedish","One should choose one's bedfellow whilst it is daylight."
"Swedish","One kisses the child and means the nurse."
"Swedish","One is also to let the other party be heard."
"Swedish","Old men carry the almanac in their bones."
"Swedish","One does not accept praise from anybody."
"Swedish","Nothing beneath the sun is lasting."
"Swedish","Out of the ashes into the fire."
"Swedish","Not all who fold their hands, are praying."
"Swedish","Noble deeds are done in silence."
"Swedish","Nobility follows the man's line at a wedding."
"Swedish","No smoke without a fire."
"Swedish","No news is good news."
"Swedish","No letters are good letters."
"Swedish","Morning hour has gold in its mouth."
"Swedish","The older buck gets, the harder become its horns."
"Swedish","Who has once deceived will ever be a suspect."
"Swedish","Midsummer night is not long but it sets many cradles rocking."
"Swedish","Nothing stimulates the appetite like little on the plate."
"Swedish","Praise gets closer than blame."
"Swedish","Self-praise smells bad."
"Swedish","Reflect on beforehand."
"Swedish","Recognize gladly great exploits, but wait a while first."
"Swedish","Rather one bird in the hand, than ten in the woods."
"Swedish","Quickly dear and soon forgotten."
"Swedish","Promise freely, fullfill sparingly."
"Swedish","Pride goes before fall."
"Swedish","Prepaid work is slow."
"Swedish","Premature purchase is repented."
"Swedish","Pray and work."
"Swedish","Other times, other customs."
"Swedish","Praise is easier got than kept."
"Swedish","Other years other hairs."
"Swedish","Practice gives skill."
"Swedish","Poverty and love are difficult to hide."
"Swedish","Poor material yields poor results."
"Swedish","Pitch and tar are the navy seaman's pride."
"Swedish","Persevere and never fear."
"Swedish","Peculiar people may show up anywhere."
"Swedish","Pay back with the same coin."
"Swedish","Paid work progresses slowly."
"Swedish","Over-praise is a burden."
"Swedish","Seriousness and mildness ought to work in unison."
"Swedish","Praise makes the good man better, blame makes the bad one worse."
"Swedish","When the sea is calm, every ship has a good captain."
"Swedish","Who has much, he gets even more."
"Swedish","Measure twice, cut once."
"Swedish","Who digs many wells doesn't get sweet water in all of them."
"Swedish","Who cannot pray to God, let him go to sea."
"Swedish","Who builds something, had better count two dollars for one."
"Swedish","Where poverty comes in, love goes out."
"Swedish","Where are breads in the desert?"
"Swedish","Where all limp, everybody thinks he walks straight."
"Swedish","When you're speaking about the trolls, they're standing in the entrance hall listening."
"Swedish","What is well-known only seems to be testified."
"Swedish","When the well is dry, we know what it's worth."
"Swedish","Who is everywhere is nowhere."
"Swedish","When the child is weened, the nurse is fired."
"Swedish","When the child is weaned, they say goodbye to the nurse."
"Swedish","When the cat's away, the rats dance on the table."
"Swedish","When the businessmen sleep, the ad works."
"Swedish","When the blind one carries the lame one, both of them gets ahead."
"Swedish","When the blind man carries the lame man, both go forward."
"Swedish","When a lawyer dies, the Devil follows him to his grave."
"Swedish","What you don't know doesn't hurt you."
"Swedish","What was bought in a hurry may soon be regretted."
"Swedish","Who does not want to work in the heat, will have to starve in the cold."
"Swedish","When we all do as we please, all the food is eaten and all the girls will be maiden."
"Swedish","Work sweetens the sleep."
"Swedish","You shouldn't saw off the branch you're sitting on."
"Swedish","You should not paint the devil on the wall."
"Swedish","You never wait too long, when you wait for something good."
"Swedish","You must take the chance to forge whilst the iron is hot."
"Swedish","You don't miss the cow until the stall is empty."
"Swedish","You don't know what may happen before evening."
"Swedish","You cannot prevent the birds of sadness from passing over your head, but you can prevent them from nesting in your hair."
"Swedish","You cannot ask more of an ox than a steak."
"Swedish","You can't teach old dogs to sit."
"Swedish","Worrying never did anyone any good."
"Swedish","The farmer should be mightier than his land."
"Swedish","Worry gives a small thing a big shadow."
"Swedish","Who is chasing after another must himself rest."
"Swedish","Work is half of health."
"Swedish","Wisdom is in the head and not in the beard."
"Swedish","Who winks to the blind, does work in vain."
"Swedish","Who wants to have something good, will have to seek it where it is."
"Swedish","Who waits for a heritage may have to wait long."
"Swedish","Who sits on your shoulders will try to climb on your head."
"Swedish","Who proves too much proves ingenting."
"Swedish","Who is insulted for a long time, finally loses his patience."
"Swedish","Who is in front everywhere often gets a nose-burn."
"Swedish","What doesn't kill, hardens."
"Swedish","Worry often gives a small thing a big shadow."
"Swedish","The well-bred child chastizes itself."
"Swedish","Thou are a bitter bird, said the raven to the starling."
"Swedish","Those who wish to sing always find a song."
"Swedish","Those who wish to shine always find a song."
"Swedish","Those who want to share the gains, shall also share the losses."
"Swedish","They who want to sing will always find a song."
"Swedish","There's no hurry, said the shoemaker, he had gruel with his awl."
"Swedish","There would be no slanderers if none would listen to them."
"Swedish","There is seldom cattle without some motley animals."
"Swedish","There is no bad weather only bad clothing."
"Swedish","What matter if I suffer, if only my neighbor suffers too."
"Swedish","The young should be taught, the old should be honored."
"Swedish","To buy the pig in the bag."
"Swedish","The way you make your bed, that's how you'll lie down."
"Swedish","The waiting man gets the wind behind him."
"Swedish","The wails of heirs are halfway laughter."
"Swedish","The tables are turned."
"Swedish","The strongest among the disabled is the one who never forgets his disability."
"Swedish","The stomack is filled earlier than the eye."
"Swedish","The ring of gold is never so red that it is not dispensed with for breads."
"Swedish","The public is an animal with many heads."
"Swedish","The poorest payer is the best collector of his own credits."
"Swedish","The poor man has none to envy him."
"Swedish","There are more motley dogs than the priest's."
"Swedish","We are esteemed and treated by the company we keep."
"Swedish","What can't be alter'd must be borne, not blamed."
"Swedish","What can you expect from a pig but a grunt?."
"Swedish","What breaks in a moment may take years to mend."
"Swedish","Weeds last the season."
"Swedish","We should not burn the light in both ends."
"Swedish","We should build with the stones we have."
"Swedish","We praise in order to be praised in return."
"Swedish","We notice faults of others and easily forget our own."
"Swedish","We note the faults of others and forget our own."
"Swedish","We know others by ourselves, sid the loafer about the lice."
"Swedish","Thou hast a head and so hath a pin."
"Swedish","We get tired of doing nothing."
"Swedish","Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn."
"Swedish","Walk like the cat around hot porridge."
"Swedish","Undeserved curses don't bite a lot."
"Swedish","To the one who waits comes the tailwind at last."
"Swedish","To step in the harmonica."
"Swedish","To speak is silver, to keep silent is gold."
"Swedish","To praise is to assess."
"Swedish","To have a lot of irons in the fire."
"Swedish","To get may rest on luck, to keep may rest on virtue."
"Swedish","To dance according to someones pipe."
"Swedish","The perch has a good time, it drinks when it wants to."
"Swedish","We have all been children."
"Swedish","Big processes make well dressed lawyers and naked parties."
"Swedish","Choose your bedfellows by day."
"Swedish","Children's bread is hard to chew."
"Swedish","Children travel from the heart to the heart."
"Swedish","Children act in the village as they have learned at home."
"Swedish","Childhood memories last long."
"Swedish","Charity supports both the giver and receiver."
"Swedish","Charity does not lessen you, going to church does not hinder you."
"Swedish","By being in front everywhere one may get a telling-off."
"Swedish","Butterflies forget that they were once caterpillars."
"Swedish","Away is good but at home is best."
"Swedish","Burned child avoids the fire."
"Swedish","Devils have more than twelve apostles."
"Swedish","Big in the words, small on the ground."
"Swedish","Better to dam the brook than the creek."
"Swedish","Better to be a poor woman than the slave of the rich."
"Swedish","Better late than never."
"Swedish","Best to bend while it is a twig."
"Swedish","Being young is a fault which improves daily."
"Swedish","Being serious and having a good time thrive together."
"Swedish","Behind the mountain there are people too."
"Swedish","Behind the mountain are people too."
"Swedish","Envy is the companion of great success."
"Swedish","Business is business."
"Swedish","Don't look a horse that was given to you in the mouth."
"Swedish","Empty barrels make the most noise."
"Swedish","Empty barrels are the noisiest."
"Swedish","Eaten bread is soon forgotten."
"Swedish","Don't weep over spilled milk."
"Swedish","Don't wake the bear that sleeps."
"Swedish","Don't throw pearls to the swine."
"Swedish","Don't throw out the child with the bathwater."
"Swedish","Don't throw away the old bucket until you know whether the new one holds water."
"Swedish","Don't think about the pig until it's in the poke."
"Swedish","Don't sit among scoffers."
"Swedish","Daringly dared, half of it won."
"Swedish","Don't scald your lips on another's soup."
"Swedish","Death is God's broom."
"Swedish","Don't let your sorrow come higher than your knees."
"Swedish","Don't judge the dog from its hairs."
"Swedish","Don't get scaled by the gruel of another."
"Swedish","Don't cross the stream to find water."
"Swedish","Don't cross the brook for water."
"Swedish","Don't celebrate until you are across the brook."
"Swedish","Don't build bigger houses than you may set roofs on."
"Swedish","Do not wake up the sleeping bear."
"Swedish","Do not judge all you see, do not believe all you hear, do not do all you can, do not say all you know, do not eat all you have, let no one know what you have in your heart or in your wallet."
"Swedish","As the question so the answer."
"Swedish","Don't sell the fur until the bear has been shot."
"Swedish","A hard-working man is worth more than a crowd of loafers."
"Swedish","A soft answer calms the wrath."
"Swedish","A quarrel between brothers costs soul and life."
"Swedish","A piece of bread in your pocket is better than a feather in your hat."
"Swedish","A piece of bread in the pocket is better than a feather in the hat."
"Swedish","A peacock has too little in its head and too much in its tail."
"Swedish","A nice face is the best letter of recommendation."
"Swedish","A man without money is like a boat without sails."
"Swedish","A life without love is like a year without summer."
"Swedish","A lazy thief is better than a lazy servant."
"Swedish","Bare is a brotherless behind."
"Swedish","A hardworking man is better than a crowd of loafers."
"Swedish","A tiny one seems arrogant."
"Swedish","A fly doesn't harm anyone."
"Swedish","A child is a certain sorrow and uncertain joy."
"Swedish","A business is good, when both parties make a good bargain."
"Swedish","A brother's wrath is a devil's wrath."
"Swedish","A bird in the hand is worth more than ten in the bush."
"Swedish","A bee does not touch a withered flower."
"Swedish","A bashful dog rarely gets fat."
"Swedish","A bad reputation is seldom completely amiss."
"Swedish","The faults of others make no law."
"Swedish","Many who kiss the child mean the nurse."
"Swedish","A hundred tailors, a hundred millers, and a hundred weavers make three hundred thieves."
"Swedish","All days' evening is not come."
"Swedish","As the master sleeps, the servant dreams."
"Swedish","Anyone can tame a shrew but he who has her."
"Swedish","Another's damage is soon forgotten."
"Swedish","Angry cats get scratched skin."
"Swedish","An upstanding peasant is bigger than a nobleman on his knees."
"Swedish","An accident rarely comes alone."
"Swedish","Amen, said the minister, he hit the old lady in the head with the New Testament."
"Swedish","Alms do not decrease, going to church does not hinder."
"Swedish","All that glitters is not gold."
"Swedish","All roads lead to Rome."
"Swedish","A stern creditor is a poor payer."
"Swedish","All fools are brothers."
"Swedish","A successful writer has a good memory and hopes that others do not have it."
"Swedish","All cannot have the Bishop for uncle."
"Swedish","All are not virgins that carry wreaths."
"Swedish","All are not men that wear trousers."
"Swedish","All are children."
"Swedish","Alike children play the best."
"Swedish","Alder fences don't last more than a year."
"Swedish","After the rain the grass will grow; after wine, conversation."
"Swedish","Advice should be viewed from behind."
"Swedish","A woman is the last judgement of the man."
"Swedish","Do not hang the bread basket too high."
"Swedish","All is not for all."
"Swedish","In calm water every ship has a good captain."
"Swedish","If a blind man leads another, they both fall together."
"Swedish","Envy is the truest form of flattery."
"Swedish","It will once come to pass as the old goose quacked."
"Swedish","It will always be rotten for me, said the farmer when they ran out of sacrament wine precisely when he wanted to go forward."
"Swedish","It is well to learn from the errors of others, since there is not time enough to make all of them by yourself."
"Swedish","It is the crime that causes the shame, and not the punishment."
"Swedish","It is seldom the fault of one when two argue."
"Swedish","It has to be fixed one way or another."
"Swedish","It goes off as when the blind fight."
"Swedish","In the shallowest waters, the ugliest fish swim."
"Swedish","Death is the last doctor."
"Swedish","In distress there is no law."
"Swedish","It's no good to sprick the bear with a needle."
"Swedish","In a small house God has His corner; in a big house, He has to stand in the hall."
"Swedish","In a good book the best is between the lines."
"Swedish","If you want to look good, you have to suffer."
"Swedish","If you marry money the devil lays an egg in your storeroom."
"Swedish","If you lose one, there are a thousand more to choose from."
"Swedish","If you have said a, you have to say b."
"Swedish","If you buy what you don't need, you steal from yourself."
"Swedish","If you are among the roses, your friends will look for you among the thorns."
"Swedish","If we reject the chaff, we may easily lose the kernel."
"Swedish","If it weren't for my need to fill my belly, I would have gilded my arm."
"Swedish","In spring no one thinks of the snow that fell last year."
"Swedish","Long vouched for is not donated."
"Swedish","Many small brooks will form a big river."
"Swedish","Many children and little food make thin smoerbroeds."
"Swedish","Many caress the child for the sake of the wet nurse."
"Swedish","Many buy the bearskin before the bear is shot."
"Swedish","Many a mickle makes a muckle."
"Swedish","Manure and diligence makes the farmer rich."
"Swedish","Luck never gives; it only lends."
"Swedish","Lovely flowers fade fast."
"Swedish","Love me when I least deserve it, because that's when I really need it."
"Swedish","Love is like dew that falls on both nettles and lilies."
"Swedish","It's an easy burden that another carries."
"Swedish","Lots of winter, lots of summer."
"Swedish","It's always something said the girl with a nosebleed."
"Swedish","Like master like dog."
"Swedish","Lick upwards, kick downwards."
"Swedish","Let the other party be heard too."
"Swedish","Lend to God and the earth -- they both pay good interest."
"Swedish","Lawyers and soldiers are the Devil's playmates."
"Swedish","Lack of bread forces one to work."
"Swedish","Keep several balls in the air."
"Swedish","It's the thought that counts."
"Swedish","It's not the fault of one, that two are fighting."
"Swedish","It's not one person's fault if two people quarrel."
"Swedish","Love has produced some heroes but even more idiots."
"Swedish","Fear less, hope more, Whine less, breathe more, Talk less, say more, Hate less, love more, And all good things are yours."
"Swedish","From children old people arise."
"Swedish","Even after the accusation or rumour has been refuted, a suspicion nonetheless lingers."
"Swedish","From children and fools we may hear the truth."
"Swedish","Friendship doubles our joy and divides our grief."
"Swedish","For the lack one thing, take another, whether better or worse."
"Swedish","For lack of hens the fox catches crows."
"Swedish","Float on small clouds."
"Swedish","Fear less, hope more; whine less, breath more; talk less, say more; Hate less, love more; and all good things are yours."
"Swedish","Fear less, hope more; eat less, chew more; whine less, breathe more; talk less, say more; hate less, love more; and all good things are yours."
"Swedish","Even a blind dove finds a grain of wheat at times."
"Swedish","Fear less, hope more, eat less, chew more, whine less, breathe more, talk less, say more, hate less, love more, and all good things will be yours."
"Swedish","Fools and stubborn people make rich lawyers."
"Swedish","Farmers are people too."
"Swedish","Faith can move mountains."
"Swedish","Fact is stranger than fiction."
"Swedish","Eyes that do not cry, do not see."
"Swedish","Evil gun powder doesn't go away easily."
"Swedish","Everything comes round."
"Swedish","Evening song with drinks: morning song with coughs."
"Swedish","Even the sun has got spots."
"Swedish","I suspected this might happen, said the one that was kicked out."
"Swedish","It's good to learn from the errors of others, since we don't have time to carry out all of them ourselves."
"Swedish","Fear less, hope more; Whine less, breathe more; Talk less, say more; Hate less, love more; And all good things are yours."
"Swedish","He who laughs the last, laughs the best."
"Swedish","Hurry slowly."
"Swedish","How long was Adam in Paradise?"
"Swedish","Hit two flies with one smack."
"Swedish","Fear may force a man to cast beyond the moon."
"Swedish","Here there will be different buns, said the baker, he ""sat down"" on the bread shovel."
"Swedish","From damage one may get wiser."
"Swedish","He who has long fingers should also have long legs."
"Swedish","He who fears every bush, comes late to the wood."
"Swedish","He who digs a pit for someone else, often falls into it himself."
"Swedish","He who cannot keep silence cannot speak."
"Swedish","He who builds and he who marries are never safe."
"Swedish","He laughs best who laughs last."
"Swedish","God gives every bird a worm, but he does not throw it into the nest."
"Swedish","Hit like a bomb."
"Swedish","He gets a tailwind who bothers to wait."
"Swedish","Give a servant a proper meal and the cow will give more milk and the cat will drink less."
"Swedish","Give the white child so that the black child doesn't cry."
"Swedish","God gives every bird his worm, but he does not throw it into the nest."
"Swedish","Good day, axe-handles."
"Swedish","Grasp all, lose all."
"Swedish","Hard bread does the cheek red."
"Swedish","Have a fire for the crows."
"Swedish","Give equal in reply, answer according to the call."
"Sweedish","Shared joy is a double joy; shared sorrow is half a sorrow."
"Sweedish","Don't throw away the old bucket until you know whether the new one holds water."
"Sweedish","Don't let your sorrow come higher than your knees."
"Swiss","The poor lack much, but the greedy more."
"Swiss","When one shuts one eye, one does not hear everything."
"Swiss","When one shuts one eye, one does not hear everything."
"Swiss","Sometimes you have to be silent in order to be heard It's easier to criticize than to do better."
"Swiss","Who cares about every little feather should not make the bed."
"Swiss","To be a fool at the right time is also an art."
"Swiss","The devil hides himself in details."""
"Swiss","Sometimes you have to be silent in order to be heard It's easier to criticize than to do better."
"Swiss","The night rinses what the day has soaped."
"Swiss","The poor lack much, but the greedy lack more."
"Swiss","The tongue is the worst piece of meat in the world."
"Swiss","What good is a golden gallows if they are going to hang you."
"Swiss","When a merchant talks about sheep he means the hide."
"Swiss","When a neighbor gets divorced everyone thinks of his own wife."
"Swiss","When in doubt who will win, be neutral."
"Swiss","Where it is customary the cow is brought to bed."
"Swiss","Words are dwarfs, deeds are giants."
"Swiss","A good spectator also creates."
"Swiss","One simple maxim is often worth more than two good friends."
"Swiss","When one shuts one eye, one does not hear everything."
"Swiss","As the stone leaves your hand it belongs to the devil."
"Swiss","A greedy person and a pauper are practically one and the same."
"Swiss","Marriage is a covered dish."
"Swiss","Ask ten brewers and you will get eleven opinions."
"Swiss","At the bottom of the sack you will find the bill."
"Swiss","Avoid those who don't like bread and children."
"Swiss","Better to sell it with regret than to keep it."
"Swiss","Better to sell with regret than to keep with regret."
"Swiss","God lets things go -- but only to a point."
"Swiss","He that sleeps sound feels not the toothache."
"Swiss","He who mocks the cripple should be straight himself."
"Swiss","If you close one eye, you will not hear everything."
"Swiss","In a house of gold the clocks are of lead."
"Swiss","It is always the fat ones who lead the dance."
"Swiss","It is easier to beat two devils into a child, than one devil out."
"Swiss","It is easier to criticize than to do better."
"Swiss","Great consolation may grow out of the smallest saying."
"Syrian","The mouse fell from the ceiling, and the cat cried ""Allah!""."
"Syrian","It is an easy thing to find a staff to beat a dog."
"Syrian","It's better to deal with the devil we know than the devil we don't know."
"Syrian","Keep away from trouble and sing to it."
"Syrian","Kiss any arm you cannot break, a and pray to God to break it."
"Syrian","Marry the girl of a good family though she be seated on a mat, very poor."
"Syrian","No one cries for losing money but the one who earned the money, no one cries for losing the child but his mother."
"Syrian","Stone dead hath no fellow."
"Syrian","The cloth of shame does not warm and if it does, it does so only briefly."
"Syrian","The land is cultivated by its own oxen."
"Syrian","When your neighbor shaves, you start to wet your cheeks."
"Syrian","The person who deals in camels should make the doors high."
"Syrian","When you are dead, your sister's tears will dry as time goes on, your widow's tears will cease in another's arms, but your mother will mourn you until she dies."
"Syrian","Writing is the mother of eloquence and the father of artists."
"Syrian","In every village, there is a path that leads to the mill."
"Syrian","A man's shirt does not change the color of his skin."
"Syrian","The zawan of your own country is better than the wheat of strangers."
"Syrian","A little spark can kindle a great fire."
"Syrian","A narrow place can contain a thousand friends."
"Syrian","A small house is enough room for a thousand friends."
"Syrian","A virgin may travel alone at midnight and be safe, and a purse of gold dropped in the road at midday will never be stolen."
"Syrian","All ways lead to the mill."
"Syrian","An Aleppine can sell even a dried donkey skin."
"Syrian","He who has his hand in the water is not like him who has his hand in the fire."
"Syrian","Be not water, taking the tint of all colors."
"Syrian","Birth is the messenger of death."
"Syrian","Choose the neighbor before the house."
"Syrian","Dwell not upon thy weariness, thy strength shall be according to the measure of thy desire."
"Syrian","Even paradise is no fun without people."
"Syrian","Girl, do not exult in thy wedding dress; see how much trouble lurks behind it."
"Syrian","An ignorant person is simply an enemy to himself."
"Syrian","If you conduct yourself properly, fear no one."
"Tadjik","The stones of my river are as soft as a pillow."
"Tadjik","The stones of my river are as soft as a pillow."
"Tahitian","The coral waxes, the palm grows, but man departs."
"Tahitian","The life of the land is the life of the people."
"Tahitian","The older a man gets, the larger the waves become."
"Tahitian","The well trodden path is not always the right path."
"Tahitian","To eat with a bruise."
"Tahitian","Water only flows into rivers."
"Tahitian","When sleeping women wake, mountains move."
"Tahitian","When the dew-laden breeze of the uplands creeps swiftly down, it brings with it the fragrance of the gardenia."
"Tahitian","You are as obstinate as Potoru."
"Tahitian","That we may all our foes destroy."
"Tahitian","The canoe ride is pleasant when the paddler is skilled."
"Tahitian","When the shark laughs with the dolphin, there is a devilish spirit at play."
"Tahitian","If you aim your spear at two fish, both will escape."
"Tahitian","The land is a chief, and a person is its lowly servant."
"Tahitian","Catch the bird but watch for the wave."
"Tahitian","Every man is the builder of his own hut."
"Tahitian","Goods given make quicker return than goods held."
"Tahitian","Obstinacy is the first diversion of Huahine."
"Tahitian","If dolphins swim toward Hilo, the sea will be calm; if the dolphins swim toward Ka'u, the ocean will be rough."
"Tahitian","Ignorance doesn't kill you, but it will make you sweat a lot."
"Tahitian","In language there is life, in language there is death."
"Tahitian","In the end, the well being of the pono, will be in the hands of the commoner."
"Tahitian","It is never too late to give to those who do not have."
"Tahitian","A single roll of taro top is delicious if seasoned with affection."
"Tahitian","Never fear the sea, fear the storm."
"Tahitian","He is not wise who places a stones on his own roof."
"Taiwanese","Greed will cause pain."
"Taiwanese","Something that looks good does not necessarily taste good."
"Taiwanese","Some people prefer liquor, others prefer tofu, and some even like rotten salmon."
"Taiwanese","Many students have become kings or queens, but no teachers have."
"Taiwanese","Even champions make mistakes -- there is no one who doesn't."
"Taiwanese","A husband and wife often fight intensely at one moment and then kiss intensely at the next moment."
"Taiwanese","A beautiful person might not have a beautiful life."
"Taiwanese","It takes sweat to work on things, but it only takes saliva to criticize things."
"Taiwanese","If someone transports dung and does not eat it, it should not be concluded that he is an honest person."
"Talmuidic","We do not see things as they are, we see things as we are."
"Tamil","Kind words conquer."
"Tamil","When you are shopping for a cow, make sure that the price of the tail is included."
"Tamil","Abstinence is the best medicine."
"Tamil","A good husband might have a bad wife, and a bad wife might have a good husband."
"Tamil","Popular agitation leads to justice."
"Tamil","An enemys punishment is his envy. "
"Tamil","Faith in medicine makes it effective. "
"Tamil","The owl is small, but its voice is loud."
"Tamil","Kind words can conquer. "
"Tamil","Extreme hunger will cause a person to break through a stone wall and steal. "
"Tamil","He who has studied himself is his own master. "
"Tamil","Kind words conquer."
"Tamil","Popular agitation leads to justice."
"Tamil","Great anger is more destructive than the sword."
"Tamil","Abstinence is the best medicine."
"Tamil","The more a ball is struck, the more it rebounds."
"Tanzania","One who bathes willingly with cold water doesn't feel the cold."
"Tanzanian","Little by little, a little becomes a lot."
"Tanzanian","The roaring lion kills no game."
"Tanzanian","The robin and the wren are God's cock and hen; the martin and the swallow are God's mate and marrow."
"Tanzanian","In the world all things are two and two."
"Tanzanian","Everything has an end."
"Tanzanian","We start as fools and become wise through experience."
"Tanzanian","To be without a friend is to be poor indeed."
"Tanzanian","The robin and the wren are God's cock and hen; the martin and the swallow are God's mate and marrow."
"Tanzanian","The roaring lion kills no game."
"Tanzanian","One who bathes willingly with cold water doesn't feel the cold."
"Tanzanian","Little by little, a little becomes a lot."
"Tanzanian","Events follow one another like the days of the week."
"Tanzanian","Even the night has ears."
"Tanzanian","Even flies have ears."
"Tanzanian","Do not mend your neighbor's fence before seeing to your own."
"Tanzanian","Do not make the dress before the child is born."
"Tanzanian","A sheep cannot bleat in two different places at the same time."
"Tao","The journey is the reward."
"Tao","The journey is the reward."
"Taoist","No one can see their reflection in running water. It is only in still water that we can see."
"Taoist","No one can see their reflection in running water. It is only in still water that we can see."
"Taoist","The journey is the reward."
"Taoist","To act sincerely with the insincere is dangerous."
"Taoist","To act sincerely with the insincere is dangerous."
"Taoist","No one can see their reflection in running water. It is only in still water that we can see."
"Taoist","The journey is the reward."
"Temne","A leopard is chasing us and do you ask me: 'is it a male or female?'"
"Texan","When you throw dirt, you lose ground."
"Texan","Never squat with your spurs on."
"Texan","Never squat with your spurs on."
"Texan","When you throw dirt, you lose ground."
"Texan","Never slap a man who's chewing tobacco."
"Texan","There's two theories to arguing with a man/woman. Neither one works."
"Texan","When you throw dirt, you lose ground."
"Texan","The quickest way to double your money is to fold it over and put it back in your pocket."
"Texan","Never squat with your spurs on."
"Texan","Always drink up stream from the herd."
"Texan","If you're ridin' ahead of the herd, take a look back every now and then to make sure it's still there."
"Texan","Don't worry about biting off more than you can chew. Your mouth is probably a whole lot bigger'n you think."
"Texan","Don't squat with your spurs on."
"Texan","Always ride your horse in the direction it's going."
"Texan","It's better when people wonder why you didn't say something than why you did."
"Thai","Talk to a priest and die a thousand deaths."
"Thai","Teach a crocodile to swim."
"Thai","Ten tongues that spread the word are worth less than two eyes that have seen, and two eyes that have seen are worth less than one hand that feels."
"Thai","The bird leaves no trail."
"Thai","Your bottom is fattier and dropping down to the fire."
"Thai","The dead will go to the village where the cock doesn't crow."
"Thai","Ride an elephant to catch a grasshopper."
"Thai","The frog select a leader."
"Thai","The heart of a woman is as capricious as a drop of water on a lotus leaf."
"Thai","The crow hold the chilli in the mouth."
"Thai","Swing a foot into thorns."
"Thai","Slow fires will smolder for a long time."
"Thai","Looking for a pin in the ocean."
"Thai","Round like a lime."
"Thai","Push the stone to the top of the mountain."
"Thai","On the way out, the road is rough; returning, it is smooth."
"Thai","Nobody lift the dog's tail when it defecates."
"Thai","Mold water into a shape."
"Thai","The store of rice in your attic is your enemy -- it makes them who have none very jealous."
"Thai","When in the city of the pretenders. Be pretending."
"Thai","Search for a needle in the ocean."
"Thai","Little is spent with difficulty, much with ease."
"Thai","Life is so short we must move very slowly."
"Thai","You should always prefer wind to water."
"Thai","Wrapped within rags might be gold."
"Thai","Work is the source of all good."
"Thai","With one stump you can't make a good fire."
"Thai","Who is timid in the woods boasts at home."
"Thai","White elephant born in the forest."
"Thai","When you go, the road is rough; when you return, smooth."
"Thai","Walls have ears, doors have eyes."
"Thai","When the river is filled, Be quick to fetch some into your bucket."
"Thai","The sweetness of food doesn't last long, but the sweetness of good words do."
"Thai","When a dog bites you, do not bite back."
"Thai","Wait until the tree has fallen before you jump over it."
"Thai","To love a cow, tie it up; To love a child, hit him/her."
"Thai","To a man wine is like water is to the boat; it can carry him or guzzle him up."
"Thai","Those who dances poorly, blames the musician."
"Thai","Think before speaking."
"Thai","There is no other happiness but peace."
"Thai","There are no secret in the world."
"Thai","The wheel of karma always repeats itself. Just like wheels of a cart."
"Thai","When you follow the old man, the dog will not bite."
"Thai","A rabbit is over excited."
"Thai","Catch a tiger with bare hands."
"Thai","Building the fence, when the cows are all stole."
"Thai","Black sheep."
"Thai","Beginning cruel end good."
"Thai","Before the nut is cooked, a sesame is burnt."
"Thai","Bald people can always find a comb."
"Thai","At high tide the fish eat ants; at low tide the ants eat fish."
"Thai","Any mind."
"Thai","Catch fish two hands."
"Thai","In a battle between elephants, the ants get squashed."
"Thai","A virtuous person sleeps well."
"Thai","A rabbit aims for the moon."
"Thai","A gold branch with a jade leaf."
"Thai","A dead elephant cannot be covered by a lotus leaf."
"Thai","A chicken sees the snake's foot and a snake sees the chicken's breast."
"Thai","A chicken gets a gem."
"Thai","A chameleon acquires gold."
"Thai","A centipede will not stop for a cripple."
"Thai","A bald man carries a comb."
"Thai","Love me, love my dog."
"Thai","A single hair hides the mountain in the distance."
"Thai","Frog in a coconut shell."
"Thai","If you want to destroy your enemy, give him an elephant."
"Thai","A short man carry a hunchback man."
"Thai","Chicken are beautiful because of their feathers, women are beautiful because of their make-up."
"Thai","Great look but bad breath."
"Thai","Grabbing excrement is better than grabbing flatulence."
"Thai","Gold that falls to earth never dims."
"Thai","Get overripe before partly ripe."
"Thai","If you are going into the wood -- don't leave your axe at home."
"Thai","Found a nice tree when your axe broken."
"Thai","Escape from a tiger to be eaten by a crocodile."
"Thai","Eat in a house then excrete on the roof."
"Thai","Doesn't paddle, but puts his feet in the river."
"Thai","Confusion is a chicken with shattered eyes."
"Thai","Goes in the left ear, goes out the right ear."
"Thai","Cover the back of an image of Buddha with gold leaf."
"Thai","Easy to change young wood shape than the old one."
"Thai","Don't borrow another's nose to breathe with."
"Thai","Don't borrow someone else's nose to breathe with."
"Thai","Don't help the elephant carry its tusks."
"Thai","Don't help the elephant to carry his tusks."
"Thai","Don't spill blood until the raven has flown over."
"Thai","Don't spoil a cool place under the hospitable tree."
"The Husia","The friend of a fool is a fool. The friend of a wise person is another wise person."
"Thonga","The hyena does not forget where it has hidden its kill."
"Tibetan","The wish is father to the thought."
"Tibetan","A father deserted by a wise son is like being caught in a shower without a felt."
"Tibetan","Excellent people are honored wherever they go."
"Tibetan","The wise understand by themselves, fools follow the reports of others."
"Tibetan","Goodness speaks in a whisper, evil shouts."
"Tibetan","Goodness speaks in a whisper, evil shouts."
"Tibetan","Our best masters are those who make us suffer the most."
"Tibetan","The highest art is the art of living an ordinary life in an extraordinary manner."
"Tibetan","The father may well be a horse, but it's most likely that the son will be a mule."
"Tibetan","The essence of the spirit is space, there is nothing it holds to in the end."
"Tibetan","Sow good and you'll reap good; sow bad and you'll reap bad. You don't have to cut down a tree to get its fruit."
"Tibetan","Sow good and you'll reap good; sow bad and you'll reap bad. You don't have to cut down a tree to get its fruit."
"Tibetan","Rebellious thoughts are like an abandoned house overtaken by robbers."
"Tibetan","Plant rice when the ground is ready; pursue women when you feel passion."
"Tibetan","The moon grows darker as it gets nearer to the sun."
"Tibetan","Only a certain amount of flowers and jewels are beautiful."
"Tibetan","One good punch on your enemy's nose, gives more pleasure than hearing well-meaning advice from your elders."
"Tibetan","No matter if you eat a little or a lot of garlic, the smell is just as strong."
"Tibetan","No Lama knows where the ber-chhen will hurt him until he puts it on."
"Tibetan","My enemy's liver is the sheath of my sword."
"Tibetan","Men will always lose the battle against cholera and bureaucracy."
"Tibetan","Medicine that heals is not always sweet and caring words are not always pleasant."
"Tibetan","Master and servant -- both have the same body odor."
"Tibetan","Luck that lasts is always suspect."
"Tibetan","Lies are short-lived."
"Tibetan","Learn to stand up where one falls."
"Tibetan","Learn what you want and leave or others."
"Tibetan","Thieves never steal bells."
"Tibetan","When you die, you rejoice, and the world cries."
"Tibetan","Each lama has his own teaching."
"Tibetan","When drinking water, think about the source."
"Tibetan","Landing a single punch on your enemies nose is more satisfying than hearing well-intentioned advice from your elders."
"Tibetan","Water in the mouth before eating; water in the eyes when the bill comes."
"Tibetan","Watch your character; it becomes your destiny."
"Tibetan","Traveling is a return to the essentials."
"Tibetan","To spread the news is to multiply it."
"Tibetan","To set fire to the wood, you need the help of the wind."
"Tibetan","To change the the world we must first change ourselves."
"Tibetan","When a king is about to lose his power his orders burn more intensely than fire."
"Tibetan","Those who have saved one life, have saved the entire world."
"Tibetan","The person who gets stuck on trivial prosperity will not attain great prosperity."
"Tibetan","There are no incurable diseases but only incurable people."
"Tibetan","The young magpie that pulls feathers out of his mother thinks that he is showing gratitude in that way."
"Tibetan","The wish is father to the thought."
"Tibetan","The wise understand; fools follow the reports of others."
"Tibetan","The wise understand by themselves, fools follow the reports of others."
"Tibetan","The wise pursue understanding; fools follow the reports of others."
"Tibetan","The wise man's wealth lies in good deeds that follow ever after him."
"Tibetan","The unfortunate would be bitten by toothless dogs."
"Tibetan","The thousand brilliant accomplishments of the past cannot serve today's purpose."
"Tibetan","The rubbish we speak is like froth on the water, actions are drops of gold."
"Tibetan","To a tendai monk, everything is wonderful."
"Tibetan","As a thing is viewed, so it appears."
"Tibetan","Eating much of sweetness you do not know if it be sweet anymore."
"Tibetan","Daughters are no better than crows."
"Tibetan","Cure the illness that is not yet an illness."
"Tibetan","Credulity breeds credulity and ends in hypocrisy."
"Tibetan","Cold hearts can find warm words."
"Tibetan","Cling not to experiences for ever-changing are they."
"Tibetan","By pride one causes virtue to decline."
"Tibetan","Better than the young man's knowledge is the old man's experience."
"Tibetan","Better once to see than many times to hear."
"Tibetan","Don't praise my good fortune before I'm dead and buried."
"Tibetan","At the bottom of patience is Heaven."
"Tibetan","Don't trust a hungry man to watch your rice."
"Tibetan","Any fool can say ""Ah"" -- you need intelligence to say ""Yes."""
"Tibetan","An elephant has enormous dung -- don't try to defecate like an elephant. Don't try to wipe someone else's ass if yours is unwiped."
"Tibetan","All the world's Great Journeys begin with the first step."
"Tibetan","A nibbling rabbit can also die of overfeeding."
"Tibetan","A lie is like a jump from a high roof."
"Tibetan","A hundred male and a hundred female qualities make a perfect human being."
"Tibetan","A father deserted by a wise son is like being caught in a shower without a felt."
"Tibetan","A child without education, is like a bird without wings."
"Tibetan","With a resolute heart, a mouse can lift an elephant. Spreading the news is also multiplying it."
"Tibetan","Beat a Chinese long enough and he will talk Tibetan."
"Tibetan","If it is here, it is everywhere. If it is not here, it is nowhere."
"Tibetan","It is hard work to be the mother of many pigs."
"Tibetan","It is easy to see the fly on the other person's nose, while ignoring the horse on your own."
"Tibetan","It is easier to put leather on the soles of one's feet than cover the world with leather."
"Tibetan","It is better to live for one day as a tiger than to live for a thousand years as a sheep."
"Tibetan","Imagination cures the chaos in the heart."
"Tibetan","If your inner mind isn't deceived, your outer actions won't be wrong."
"Tibetan","If you don't know where you are, any road will do."
"Tibetan","If there is only one earring among seven daughters, there will always be a quarrel on festival days."
"Tibetan","If the master gets drunk it is an honorable drunkenness; if the servant does it is evidence of his mean disposition."
"Tibetan","Don't notice the tiny flea in the other person's hair and overlook the lumbering yak on your own nose."
"Tibetan","If peace reigns in the land, a nun can govern it."
"Tibetan","Knowing just one word of wisdom is like knowing a hundred ordinary words."
"Tibetan","If I tell you my dream, you might forget it. If I act on my dream, perhaps you will remember it, but if I involve you, it becomes your dream too."
"Tibetan","If I know I will die tomorrow, I can still learn something tonight."
"Tibetan","He who knows a great deal has a hundred eyes."
"Tibetan","He who has had enough to eat thinks of serving God; the hungry think of stealing."
"Tibetan","Having drunk the country's water, one should obey the country's laws."
"Tibetan","Goodness speaks in a whisper, evil shouts."
"Tibetan","For so must it be, and help me do my part."
"Tibetan","Excellent people are honored wherever they go."
"Tibetan","Eat according to the limits of your provisions; walk according to the length of your step."
"Tibetan","If the inner mind is not deluded, the outer actions will not be wrong."
"Tibetan","Who can say for sure that one will live to see tomorrow."
"Tibetan","With a stout heart, a mouse can lift an elephant."
"Tibetan","Without a woman's help, a man cannot set up a tent."
"Tibetan","Without an ax no tree can be cut down."
"Tibetan","Words are mere bubbles of water; deeds are drops of gold."
"Tibetan","You are only master of food that you haven't yet eaten."
"Tibetan","Who can say with certainty that one will live to see the morrow?"
"Togolese","When all men say you are a dog, it is time to bark."
"Togolese","Not all those who are old are wise."
"Togolese","So not roast all your corn in the winter."
"Togolese","The devil sups with the tax collector."
"Togolese","The fish, seeing the water has dried up, struggles mightily in the mud."
"Togolese","The heart rules without rules."
"Togolese","The man who has never experienced evil does not know the worth of what is good."
"Togolese","It is impossible to go and look into the stomach of another."
"Togolese","We are all flesh and blood of the earth and so will return to the ground as rotten maggot encrusted relics."
"Togolese","He bawls like a calf because he is as weak as a kitten."
"Togolese","With gold you can make a road to heaven but it will end in hell."
"Togolese","The tears running down your face do not blind you."
"Togolese","In the world there is more madness than sanity."
"Togolese","In quietness and in confidence shall be your strength."
"Togolese","If there is no traitor in your house, the witches will never be able to get at you."
"Togolese","You must kill the hornets to get rid of the nest."
"Togolese","Good stew is best to be made in an old pot."
"Togolese","Every rhinoceros is proud of its horn."
"Togolese","Don't butter the skillet before catching the fish."
"Togolese","Breed up a serpent and he will strike when you are in deep slumber."
"Togolese","Better the child weeps than your wife."
"Togolese","Absence polishes passion, presence reinforces it."
"Togolese","A woman's tongue is sharp enough to pierce the toughest flesh."
"Togolese","If you hurt the reputation of another, you damage your own."
"Toma","If you are injured by a thorn, you will be healed by a thorn."
"Tongan","Do not whirl a snake in the air when you have killed it; the ones which remain in their holes see you."
"Tongan","Friendship is a furrow in the sand."
"Tongan","He who provokes a war must be sure that he knows how to fight."
"Tongan","The hyena does not forget where it has hidden its kill."
"Tongan","The white man has no kin. his kin is his money."
"Tongan","A cowardly hyena lives longer."
"Traditional","You can't teach an old dog new tricks."
"Traditional","Who goes a borrowing, goes a sorrowing."
"Traditional","Wide will wear, but tight will tear."
"Traditional","Why keep a dog and bark yourself?"
"Traditional","Why buy a cow when milk is so cheap?"
"Traditional","Whom God wishes to destroy, he first makes mad."
"Traditional","Who wills the end, wills the means."
"Traditional","You cannot be lost on a road that is straight."
"Traditional","Who knows most believes least."
"Traditional","You are only worth has much as you have."
"Traditional","Who ever does not respect confidence will never find happiness in their path."
"Traditional","While there's life there's hope."
"Traditional","While doctors consult, the patient dies."
"Traditional","Whether you ignore a pig, or worship that pig from afar, to the pig it's all the same."
"Traditional","Where there's a will there's a way."
"Traditional","Where the law is uncertain there is no law."
"Traditional","Who spits against the wind, it falls in his face."
"Traditional","You can't make an omelette without breaking eggs."
"Traditional","Young people talk of what they are doing; old people of what they have done; and fools of what they have a mind to do."
"Traditional","You'll repent if you marry, and repent if you don't."
"Traditional","You must be fully prepared to lose a great deal in order to make a great deal."
"Traditional","You cannot run with the hare and hunt with the hounds."
"Traditional","You cannot propel yourself forward by patting yourself on the back."
"Traditional","You can't tell a book by its cover."
"Traditional","With someone holding nothing but trumps it is impossible to play cards."
"Traditional","You can't take it with you when you go."
"Traditional","Write down the advice of him who loves you, though you like it not at present."
"Traditional","You can't get blood out of a stone."
"Traditional","You can only lean against that which resists."
"Traditional","You can often find in rivers what you cannot find in oceans."
"Traditional","You can lead a horse to the water, but you can't make him drink."
"Traditional","You can have too much of a good thing."
"Traditional","Zeal is like fire: it needs both feeding and watching."
"Traditional","Practise what you preach."
"Traditional","Quackery has no friend like gullibility."
"Traditional","Put off the evil hour as long as you can."
"Traditional","Put an Irishman on the spit, and you can always get another Irishman to baste him."
"Traditional","Private reproof is the best grave for private faults."
"Traditional","Pride and poverty don't get along, but often live together."
"Traditional","Quick to borrow is always slow to pay."
"Traditional","Praise makes good people better and bad people worse."
"Traditional","Rain, rain, go away, come again another day."
"Traditional","Practice what you preach."
"Traditional","Practice makes perfect."
"Traditional","Precept guides, but example draws."
"Traditional","Quicker by taking more time."
"Traditional","Quit not certainty for hope."
"Traditional","Our passions are the winds that propel our vessel. Our reason is the pilot that steers her. Without winds the vessel would not move and without a pilot she would be lost."
"Traditional","Rebuke should have a grain more of salt than of sugar."
"Traditional","Rebuke with soft words and hard arguments."
"Traditional","Red sky at night, sailor's delight. Red sky at morning, sailors take warning."
"Traditional","Red sky at night, shepherd's delight; red sky in the morning, shepherd's warning."
"Traditional","Rein in the horse at the edge of the cliff."
"Traditional","Respect starts with yourself."
"Traditional","Revenge is a dish that tastes better cold."
"Traditional","Poverty is not a crime."
"Traditional","Rain before seven: fine before eleven."
"Traditional","Pay beforehand if you would have your work poorly done."
"Traditional","One's best fortune, or, their worst is their spouse."
"Traditional","Opportunities may come but they never linger."
"Traditional","Opportunities neglected can never be recovered."
"Traditional","Opportunity seldom knocks twice."
"Traditional","Sickness comes on horseback, but goes away on foot."
"Traditional","Out of debt, out of danger."
"Traditional","Revenge is sweet."
"Traditional","Over no home can the sign be hung: There is no trouble here."
"Traditional","Ownership is to fear."
"Traditional","Patience is a virtue."
"Traditional","Out of sight, out of mind."
"Traditional","Patience, money and time bring all things to past."
"Traditional","Poverty has no greater foe than bashfulness."
"Traditional","Penny wise, pound foolish."
"Traditional","People blame themselves for the purpose of being praised."
"Traditional","People lend only to the rich."
"Traditional","People who have bread to eat do not appreciate the severity of a famine."
"Traditional","People who have little to do are excessive talkers."
"Traditional","Persuasion is better than force."
"Traditional","Physicians' faults are covered with earth, and rich men's with money."
"Traditional","Plaster thick, some will stick."
"Traditional","Possession is nine points of the law."
"Traditional","Possession is nine tenths of the law."
"Traditional","Patience when teased is often transformed into rage."
"Traditional","Some who will not speak against another, in the end does them harm."
"Traditional","Sins of omission are seldom fun."
"Traditional","Six feet of earth make all men equal."
"Traditional","Six men give a doctor less to do than one woman."
"Traditional","Sleep is better than medicine."
"Traditional","Sloth is the key to poverty."
"Traditional","Slow but sure wins the race."
"Traditional","Slow help is no help."
"Traditional","Soft words win hard hearts."
"Traditional","Some evils are cured by contempt."
"Traditional","Short prayers reach heaven."
"Traditional","Some people are born hammers, others anvils."
"Traditional","Silence is the voice of complicity."
"Traditional","Something you don't want is dear at any price."
"Traditional","Soon enough is well enough."
"Traditional","Soon learned, soon forgotten."
"Traditional","Spare the rod and spoil the child."
"Traditional","Speak and the man shall be shown."
"Traditional","Speak little and to the purpose."
"Traditional","Speak the truth and shame the devil."
"Traditional","Speak when you are spoken to."
"Traditional","Speech is silver, silence is golden."
"Traditional","Speedy exception is the mother of good fortune."
"Traditional","Some have been thought brave because they didn't have the courage to run away."
"Traditional","Seven's a banquet nine a brawl."
"Traditional","Ridicule is the test of truth."
"Traditional","Rule: Never perform card tricks for the people you play poker with."
"Traditional","Sailors have a port in every storm."
"Traditional","Salt water and absence wash away love."
"Traditional","Save your breath to cool your porridge."
"Traditional","Saying is one thing, and doing another."
"Traditional","Scratch my back and I'll scratch yours."
"Traditional","Secrecy is the beginning of tyranny."
"Traditional","See a pin and pick it up, all the day you'll have good luck; see a pin and let it lie, you'll want a pin before you die."
"Traditional","See Naples and die."
"Traditional","Simplicity is the seal of truth."
"Traditional","Self-praise is no recommendation."
"Traditional","Silent men like still waters, are deep and dangerous."
"Traditional","Short judgments make long friends."
"Traditional","Short lived pleasure is the parent of pain."
"Traditional","One who walks in another's tracks leaves no footprints."
"Traditional","Show her the rudder, but don't steer her boat."
"Traditional","Not the glittering weapon fights the fight, but rather the hero's heart."
"Traditional","Sickness is felt, but health not at all."
"Traditional","Sickness soaks the purse."
"Traditional","Sickness tells us what we are."
"Traditional","Silence implies consent."
"Traditional","Riches have wings."
"Traditional","Seeing is believing."
"Traditional","Nature surpasses nurture."
"Traditional","Never let any mechanical device know that you are in a hurry."
"Traditional","Marry in May, rue for aye."
"Traditional","Marrying is easy, it's housework that's hard."
"Traditional","Masters who sacrifice for servants will receive the gift of loyalty."
"Traditional","Measure three times before you cut once."
"Traditional","Medicine cures the man who is fated not to die."
"Traditional","Meet on the stairs and you won't meet in heaven."
"Traditional","Merit is often an obstacle to fortune; the reason is it produces two bad effects, envy and fear."
"Traditional","Money is truthful. If a man speaks of his honor, make him pay cash."
"Traditional","Money spent on the mind is never spent in vain."
"Traditional","Marry in haste, and repent at leisure."
"Traditional","Music helps not the toothache."
"Traditional","March comes in like a lion and goes out like a lamb."
"Traditional","Ne'er cast a clout till May be out."
"Traditional","Necessity requires no decision."
"Traditional","Needs must when the devil drives."
"Traditional","Neither blame or praise yourself."
"Traditional","Never ask a favor of someone till they have had their dinner."
"Traditional","Never ask pardon before you are accused."
"Traditional","Never burn your fingers to snuff another man's candle."
"Traditional","Never do things by halves."
"Traditional","Never find fault with the absent."
"Traditional","Nothing is more noble than politeness, and nothing more ridiculous than ceremony."
"Traditional","Much meat, much disease."
"Traditional","Luck is the idol of the idle."
"Traditional","Long absent, soon forgotten."
"Traditional","Look after number one."
"Traditional","Look before you leap."
"Traditional","Look on the bright side."
"Traditional","Lose a leg rather than life."
"Traditional","Love can neither be bought or sold, its only price is love."
"Traditional","Love is blind; friendship closes its eyes."
"Traditional","Love laughs at locksmiths."
"Traditional","Love makes the world go round."
"Traditional","Love me, love my dog."
"Traditional","Marry in Lent, and you'll live to repent."
"Traditional","Love will find a way."
"Traditional","Never look a gift horse in the mouth."
"Traditional","Lucky at cards, unlucky in love."
"Traditional","Mackerel sky and mares' tails make lofty ships carry low sails."
"Traditional","Make hay while the sun shines."
"Traditional","Make the cap fit the head."
"Traditional","Make your bargain before beginning to plow."
"Traditional","Man does what he can, God does what he will."
"Traditional","Many a mickle makes a muckle."
"Traditional","Many lick before they bite."
"Traditional","Many medicines, few cures."
"Traditional","Many talk like philosophers yet live like fools."
"Traditional","Love rules his kingdom without a sword."
"Traditional","Old age though despised, is coveted by all."
"Traditional","Never judge from appearances."
"Traditional","No wonder lasts over three days."
"Traditional","None so blind as those who won't see."
"Traditional","Not having enough is like not having anything."
"Traditional","The best things in life are free."
"Traditional","Nothing is certain but death and taxes."
"Traditional","St. Swithin's Day, if thou dost rain, for forty days it will remain; St. Swithin's Day, if thou be fair, for forty days 'twill rain no more."
"Traditional","Nothing is so full of victory as patience."
"Traditional","Nothing so bad but it might have been worse."
"Traditional","Nothing ventured, nothing gained."
"Traditional","No sheath shall hold what finds its home in flesh."
"Traditional","Offenders never pardon."
"Traditional","No price is too low for a bear or too high for a bull."
"Traditional","Old habits die hard."
"Traditional","Old sins cast long shadows."
"Traditional","Old soldiers never die, they simply fade away."
"Traditional","Once a parson always a parson."
"Traditional","One can easily judge the character of a person by the way they treat people who can do nothing for them."
"Traditional","One hour in the execution of justice is worth seventy years of prayer."
"Traditional","One hour's sleep before midnight, is worth two after."
"Traditional","One lives in the world's memory only by what they have done in the world's behalf."
"Traditional","One man's meat is another man's poison."
"Traditional","One of these days, is none of these days."
"Traditional","Now is the watchword of the wise."
"Traditional","No man is an island, but some of us are long peninsulas."
"Traditional","Never look for a worm in the apple of your eye."
"Traditional","Never offer to teach a fish to swim."
"Traditional","Never repeat old grievances."
"Traditional","Never say die."
"Traditional","Never share a foxhole with anyone braver than you are."
"Traditional","Never speak ill of the dead."
"Traditional","Never tell your story to a deaf man."
"Traditional","Never too late to learn."
"Traditional","Ninety per cent of inspiration is perspiration."
"Traditional","No bees, no honey; no work, no money."
"Traditional","No time like the present."
"Traditional","No man is a good physician who has never been sick."
"Traditional","One swallow does not make a summer."
"Traditional","No man is infallible."
"Traditional","No matter how hard you throw a dead fish in the water, it still won't swim."
"Traditional","No names, no pack-drill."
"Traditional","No one can pray well, but those who live well."
"Traditional","No one is as angry as the person who is wrong."
"Traditional","No one is worse, for knowing the worst of themselves."
"Traditional","No one knows what the dinner was after the plates have been washed."
"Traditional","No one with a good catch of fish goes home by the back alley."
"Traditional","No pillows so soft as God's Promise."
"Traditional","No pleasure without pain."
"Traditional","No love like the first love."
"Traditional","To err is human."
"Traditional","Those that do you a very ill deed will never forgive you."
"Traditional","Those that marry for money sell their liberty."
"Traditional","Thou hast a head and so hath a pin."
"Traditional","Three things drive a man outdoors; smoke, a leaking roof and a scolding wife."
"Traditional","Throw dirt enough, and some will stick."
"Traditional","Throw out a sprat to catch a mackerel."
"Traditional","Time cures the sick man, not the ointment."
"Traditional","Time is a great healer."
"Traditional","Time tries truth."
"Traditional","The best surgeon is he that has been well hacked himself."
"Traditional","To deceive oneself is very easy."
"Traditional","Think late, suffer soon."
"Traditional","To speak kindly does not hurt the tongue."
"Traditional","To teach well, we need not say all that we know, Successful teachers are effective in spite of the psychological theories they suffer under."
"Traditional","Tobacco hic,/ Will make a man well if he be sick."
"Traditional","Tomorrow is another day."
"Traditional","Tomorrow never comes."
"Traditional","Too many cooks spoil the broth."
"Traditional","Too much zeal spoils everything."
"Traditional","Travel broadens the mind."
"Traditional","True love never grows old."
"Traditional","Truth fears no trial."
"Traditional","Time will tell."
"Traditional","There's no fool like an old fool."
"Traditional","There are two things a person should never be angry at, what they can help, and what they cannot."
"Traditional","There is a time and place for everything."
"Traditional","There is honor among thieves."
"Traditional","There is more than one way to skin a cat."
"Traditional","There is no accounting for tastes."
"Traditional","There is no greater misfortune, than to not be able to endure misfortune."
"Traditional","There is not so much comfort in having children as there is sorrow in parting with them."
"Traditional","There is nothing certain, but the uncertain."
"Traditional","There will be sleeping enough in the grave."
"Traditional","There's a black sheep in every flock."
"Traditional","Third time lucky."
"Traditional","There's many a slip 'twixt the cup and the lip."
"Traditional","Think of many things, do only one."
"Traditional","There's no smoke without fire."
"Traditional","There's nowt so queer as folk."
"Traditional","There's one law for the rich, and another for the poor."
"Traditional","There's only one pretty child in the world, and every mother has it."
"Traditional","They are fools whose sheep run away twice."
"Traditional","They laugh well who laugh last."
"Traditional","They that envy others are their inferiors."
"Traditional","Things are not always what they seem."
"Traditional","Things refuse to be mismanaged long."
"Traditional","Truth is stranger than fiction."
"Traditional","There's many a good tune played on an old fiddle."
"Traditional","When one door shuts, another opens."
"Traditional","Truth fears nothing but concealment."
"Traditional","What can't be cured, must be endured."
"Traditional","What is a big shot except a little shot that kept on shooting."
"Traditional","What must be, must be."
"Traditional","What the eye does not admire the heart does not desire."
"Traditional","What you don't know can't hurt you."
"Traditional","What's done cannot be undone."
"Traditional","Whatever you teach, be brief; what is quickly said the mind readily receives and faithfully retains, while everything superfluous runs over as from a full container. Who knows much says least."
"Traditional","When a fox preaches, take care of your geese."
"Traditional","When a heart is on fire, sparks always fly out of the mouth."
"Traditional","We pay when old for the excesses of youth."
"Traditional","When money is taken freedom is forsaken."
"Traditional","We must learn to walk before we can run."
"Traditional","When one is prepared, difficulties do not come."
"Traditional","When poverty comes in at the door, love flies out of the window."
"Traditional","When poverty comes in the door love flies out the window."
"Traditional","When someone is going downhill everyone likes to give them a kick."
"Traditional","When the cat's away, the mice will play."
"Traditional","When the will is ready the feet are light."
"Traditional","When two friends have a common bank account, one sings and the other weeps."
"Traditional","When we can't find peace in ourselves it is vain to look for it elsewhere."
"Traditional","When you see a turtle on top of a fence post, you know he had some help."
"Traditional","Where one is wise two are happy."
"Traditional","When difficulties are overcome they begin blessing."
"Traditional","Victory has 100 fathers and defeat is an orphan."
"Traditional","The wrath of brothers is fierce and devilish."
"Traditional","Truth is the daughter of time."
"Traditional","Truth is the safest lie."
"Traditional","Truth will out."
"Traditional","Try and trust will move mountains."
"Traditional","Two dogs strive for a bone and the third one runs off with it."
"Traditional","Two heads are better than one."
"Traditional","Unbridled gratification produces unbridled desire."
"Traditional","Unemployment does not guarantee leisure."
"Traditional","Union is strength."
"Traditional","Weave in faith and God will find the thread."
"Traditional","Vice is often clothed in virtue's habit."
"Traditional","Truth is God's daughter."
"Traditional","Visits always give pleasure; if not the arrival, the departure."
"Traditional","Want is the mother of industry."
"Traditional","Wash your hands often, your feet seldom, and your head never."
"Traditional","Waste not, want not."
"Traditional","We all end up in a single bed sooner or later."
"Traditional","We are too busy mopping the floor to turn off the faucet."
"Traditional","We cannot direct the wind, but we can adjust the sails."
"Traditional","We come and cry and that is life, we cry and go and that is death."
"Traditional","We hate delays by others, but sometimes it makes us wise."
"Traditional","We learn by teaching."
"Traditional","Unless a serpent devour a serpent it will not become a dragon. Unless one power absorb another, it will not become great."
"Traditional","The face is the index of the mind."
"Traditional","The Irish ignore anything they can't drink or punch."
"Traditional","The darkest hour is just before the dawn."
"Traditional","The devil is not so black as he is painted."
"Traditional","The devil looks after his own."
"Traditional","The dog that quits barking can get some sleep."
"Traditional","The early bird catches the early worm."
"Traditional","The early bird catches the worm."
"Traditional","The end justifies the means."
"Traditional","The exception proves the rule."
"Traditional","The eye is bigger than the belly."
"Traditional","The counsel you would have another keep, first keep yourself."
"Traditional","The eyes are the window of the soul."
"Traditional","The charitable give out the door and God puts it back through the window."
"Traditional","The family that prays together stays together."
"Traditional","The first mistake are theirs who commit them, the second are theirs that permit them."
"Traditional","The first wife is matrimony, the second company, the third heresy."
"Traditional","The fool is always beginning to live."
"Traditional","The glaciers didn't freeze overnight."
"Traditional","The gods sell all things at a fair price."
"Traditional","The good die young."
"Traditional","The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world."
"Traditional","The hardest work of all is to do nothing."
"Traditional","There are only twenty-four hours in the day."
"Traditional","The eye is the mirror of the soul."
"Traditional","That which is escaped now is pain to come."
"Traditional","Sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me."
"Traditional","Strike while the iron is hot."
"Traditional","Take a hair of the dog that bit you."
"Traditional","Take care of the pence, and the pounds will take care of themselves."
"Traditional","Take things as they come."
"Traditional","Talk of the devil, and he is bound to appear."
"Traditional","Talk well of your friends and of your enemies say nothing."
"Traditional","Talking without thinking is like shooting without taking aim."
"Traditional","Tall trees catch much wind."
"Traditional","Tell the truth and then run."
"Traditional","The cuckoo comes in April, and stays the month of May; sings a song at midsummer, and then goes away."
"Traditional","That fear may reach all, punish but few."
"Traditional","The last straw breaks the camel's back."
"Traditional","That which proves too much, proves nothing."
"Traditional","The back of one door is the face of another."
"Traditional","The best counselors are the dead."
"Traditional","The best of friends must part."
"Traditional","Loans and debts make worry and frets."
"Traditional","The best things come in small parcels."
"Traditional","The first breath is the beginning of death."
"Traditional","The bleating of the lamb merely arouses the tiger."
"Traditional","The brewery is the best drugstore."
"Traditional","The burden one likes is cheerfully carried."
"Traditional","Temperance is the best physic."
"Traditional","The spirit of man is the candle of the Lord."
"Traditional","The heart that truly loves never forgets."
"Traditional","The pleasure of what we enjoy is lost by coveting more."
"Traditional","The poor man seeks only a crumb, then finds he still hungers."
"Traditional","The poor man's budget is full of schemes."
"Traditional","The presence of the doctor is the beginning of the cure."
"Traditional","The road to success is lined with many tempting parking spaces."
"Traditional","The same hammer that breaks the glass forges the steel."
"Traditional","The secret of patience is doing something else in the meantime."
"Traditional","The shallower the brook, the more it babbles."
"Traditional","The shoemaker's son always goes barefoot."
"Traditional","The person who is tired will find time to sleep."
"Traditional","The soul is not where it lives, but where it loves."
"Traditional","The person who has no opinion will seldom be wrong."
"Traditional","The streets of London are paved with gold."
"Traditional","The style is the man."
"Traditional","The superior doctor prevents sickness;/ The mediocre doctor attends to impending sickness;/ The inferior doctor treats actual sickness."
"Traditional","The tallest tree is rooted in the ground."
"Traditional","The time to make friends is before you need them."
"Traditional","The weakest goes to the wall."
"Traditional","The weakness of an enemy forms part of our own strength."
"Traditional","The wolf changes his coat, but not his disposition."
"Traditional","The word that is heard perishes, but the letter that is written remains."
"Traditional","Step by step one goes very far."
"Traditional","The silent dog is the first to bite."
"Traditional","The multitude is always wrong."
"Traditional","The law does not concern itself about trifles."
"Traditional","The law helps those who watch, not those who sleep."
"Traditional","The less people think the more they talk."
"Traditional","The lion and the lamb shall lie down together, but the lamb won't get much sleep."
"Traditional","The longest day soon comes to an end."
"Traditional","The loudest bark rids not a dog of his fleas."
"Traditional","The man who builds his own throne rules over a desert."
"Traditional","The man who can't dance says the band can't play."
"Traditional","The man who never makes a mistake always takes orders from one who does."
"Traditional","The more laws the less justice."
"Traditional","The plant often removed cannot thrive."
"Traditional","The most noble dog can only bark."
"Traditional","There are no greater promisers than those who have nothing to give."
"Traditional","The nearer the bone, the sweeter the flesh."
"Traditional","The noblest vengeance is to forgive."
"Traditional","The north wind does blow, and we shall have snow."
"Traditional","The north wind has no corn and a poor man no friend."
"Traditional","The obscure we see eventually. The completely apparent takes longer."
"Traditional","The old man has his death before his eyes; the young man behind his back."
"Traditional","The one who pleased everybody died before they were born."
"Traditional","The one who wills is the one who can."
"Traditional","The owl of ignorance lays the egg of pride."
"Traditional","The patience of the hunter is always greater than that of the prey."
"Traditional","The most dangerous food to eat is a wedding cake."
"Traditional","Better be an old man's darling than a young man's slave."
"Traditional","Battle doesn't need a purpose; the battle is its own purpose."
"Traditional","Be slow in choosing a friend, but slower in changing him."
"Traditional","Beauty is only skin-deep."
"Traditional","Beauty is potent but money is omnipotent."
"Traditional","Beggars can't be choosers."
"Traditional","Believe nothing of what you hear, and only half of what you see."
"Traditional","Benefits make a man a slave."
"Traditional","Better a lean agreement than a fat lawsuit."
"Traditional","Better a lie that heals than a truth that wounds."
"Traditional","Easy come, easy go."
"Traditional","Better be a fool than a knave."
"Traditional","Attack is the best form of defense."
"Traditional","Better be envied than pitied."
"Traditional","Better be safe than sorry."
"Traditional","Better to ask a question than to remain ignorant."
"Traditional","Better to be known as a sinner than a hypocrite."
"Traditional","Better to go to bed hungry than to wake up in debt."
"Traditional","Better to sit all night than to go to bed with a dragon."
"Traditional","Between the wish and the thing life lies waiting."
"Traditional","Beware of men who flourish hereditary honors."
"Traditional","Birds of a feather flock together."
"Traditional","Blood is thicker than water."
"Traditional","Better a living dog than a dead lion."
"Traditional","An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of learning."
"Traditional","Amendment is repentance."
"Traditional","Among the blind the one eyed is king."
"Traditional","An ape is ne'er so like an ape/ As when he wears a doctor's cape."
"Traditional","An apple a day keeps the doctor away."
"Traditional","An apple-pie without some cheese is like a kiss without a squeeze."
"Traditional","An army of deer would be more formidable commanded by a lion, than a an army of lions commanded by a stag."
"Traditional","An atheist is one point beyond the devil."
"Traditional","An eagle does not catch flies."
"Traditional","An Englishman's home is his castle."
"Traditional","An Englishman's word is his bond."
"Traditional","Barking dogs seldom bite."
"Traditional","An hour of pain is as long as a day of pleasure."
"Traditional","Bad news travels fast."
"Traditional","An ounce of practice is worth a pound of preaching."
"Traditional","Any landing you can walk away from is a good one."
"Traditional","Any publicity is good publicity."
"Traditional","Anyone who is satisfied to stand still should not complain when others pass him."
"Traditional","As a jewel of gold in a swine's snout, so is a fair woman which is without discretion."
"Traditional","As soon as man is born he begins to die."
"Traditional","As the grace of man is in the mind, so the beauty of the mind is eloquence."
"Traditional","As the person who has health is young, so the person who owes nothing is rich."
"Traditional","Ask no questions and hear no lies."
"Traditional","Bread is the staff of life."
"Traditional","An hour in the morning is worth two in the evening."
"Traditional","Don't spur a willing horse."
"Traditional","Books and friends should be few but good."
"Traditional","Do not drink poison to quench a thirst."
"Traditional","Do not dwell in a city whose governor is a physician."
"Traditional","Do not look to the peaceful man for cudgels."
"Traditional","Dog does not eat dog."
"Traditional","Doing is better than saying."
"Traditional","Don't cross the bridge till you come to it."
"Traditional","Don't cut off your nose to spite your face."
"Traditional","Don't just cross a river--cross it bearing fire."
"Traditional","Don't meet troubles half-way."
"Traditional","Desperate cuts must have desperate cures."
"Traditional","Don't spoil the ship for a ha'porth of tar."
"Traditional","Death is the poor man's best physician."
"Traditional","Don't teach your grandmother to suck eggs."
"Traditional","Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater."
"Traditional","Don't wash your dirty linen in public."
"Traditional","Drink wine, and have the gout; drink no wine, and have the gout too."
"Traditional","Dying is as natural as living."
"Traditional","Each snowflake in an avalanche pleads its innocence."
"Traditional","Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise."
"Traditional","Ease and honor are seldom bedfellows."
"Traditional","Easier said than done."
"Traditional","East, west, home's best."
"Traditional","Don't put all your eggs in one basket."
"Traditional","Confess you were wrong yesterday; it will show you are wise today."
"Traditional","All things are becoming to good people."
"Traditional","Broken friendships can be soldered, but never sound."
"Traditional","By bravely enduring it, an evil which cannot be avoided is overcome."
"Traditional","By doing nothing we learn to do ill."
"Traditional","By others faults the wise correct their own."
"Traditional","Cast no dirt into the well that gives you water."
"Traditional","Caution is the parent of safety."
"Traditional","Charity begins at home."
"Traditional","Children and drunks always speak the truth."
"Traditional","Choose your wife as you wish your children to be."
"Traditional","Divide and rule."
"Traditional","Competition is the whetstone of talent."
"Traditional","Borrowed garments never fit well."
"Traditional","Conscience is the dog that can't bite, but never stops barking."
"Traditional","Contraries are cured by contraries."
"Traditional","Could everything be done twice it would be done better."
"Traditional","Curiosity killed the cat."
"Traditional","Curses are like chickens, they always come home."
"Traditional","Custom is a tyrant."
"Traditional","Danger past, God forgotten."
"Traditional","Dead men tell no tales."
"Traditional","Death defies the doctor."
"Traditional","Death is the great leveller."
"Traditional","Civility costs nothing."
"Traditional","A judge knows nothing unless it has been explained to him three times."
"Traditional","A man of straw is worth a woman of gold."
"Traditional","A friend is someone who doesn't like the same people you do."
"Traditional","A gold ring does not cure a felon."
"Traditional","A good dog deserves a good bone."
"Traditional","A good drink makes the old young."
"Traditional","A good face is a letter of recommendation."
"Traditional","A good wife and health are a man's best wealth."
"Traditional","A good wife and health is a mans best wealth."
"Traditional","A hedge between keeps friendship green."
"Traditional","A hog in armor is still a hog."
"Traditional","A fool believes everything."
"Traditional","A jack of both sides, is before long, trusted by nobody, and abused by both parties."
"Traditional","A fool at forty is a fool indeed."
"Traditional","A king's castle is his home."
"Traditional","A lawyer never goes to law himself."
"Traditional","A lawyer's opinion is worth nothing unless paid for."
"Traditional","A lazy youth, a lousy age."
"Traditional","A liar is worse than a thief."
"Traditional","A light heart lives long."
"Traditional","A little body often harbors a great soul."
"Traditional","A little with quiet is the only diet."
"Traditional","A man can die but once."
"Traditional","All's well that ends well."
"Traditional","A hundred years cannot repair a moment's loss of honor."
"Traditional","A chain is no stronger than its weakest link."
"Traditional","The first step toward greatness is to be honest."
"Traditional","Living in the past has one thing going for it; it's cheaper."
"Traditional","They say is often a great liar."
"Traditional","A bad penny always turns up."
"Traditional","A bad workman always blames his tools."
"Traditional","A beetle is a beauty in the eyes of his mother."
"Traditional","A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush."
"Traditional","A bit of fragrance always clings to the hand that gives you roses."
"Traditional","A bleeding sheep loses a bite."
"Traditional","A bolt does not always fall when it thunders."
"Traditional","A Friend in need is a friend indeed."
"Traditional","A cat may look at a king."
"Traditional","A man too busy to take care of his health is like a mechanic too bus to take care of his tools."
"Traditional","A chip on the shoulder indicates wood higher up."
"Traditional","A colt is worth little if it does not break its halter."
"Traditional","A constant guest is never welcome."
"Traditional","A dimple in the chin, a devil within."
"Traditional","A disease known is half cured."
"Traditional","A dog that barks much is never a good hunter."
"Traditional","A drop of honey catches more flies than a hogshead of vinegar."
"Traditional","A drowning man will clutch at a straw."
"Traditional","A fine cage won't feed the bird."
"Traditional","A fool and his money are soon parted."
"Traditional","A cat has nine lives."
"Traditional","After shaking hands with a Greek, count your fingers."
"Traditional","A man need not look in your mouth to know how old you are."
"Traditional","A woman's work is never done."
"Traditional","A wound heals but the scar remains."
"Traditional","A wreck on shore is a beacon at sea."
"Traditional","A young doctor makes a humpy graveyard."
"Traditional","A young physician fattens the churchyard."
"Traditional","A young preacher, a new hell."
"Traditional","Absence and a friendly neighbor washes away love."
"Traditional","Acts of kindness may soon be forgotten, but the memory of an offense remains."
"Traditional","Adam's ale is the best brew."
"Traditional","A wise teacher makes learning a joy."
"Traditional","After death the doctor."
"Traditional","A wicked book cannot repent."
"Traditional","All are not saints that go to church."
"Traditional","All cats are gray in the dark."
"Traditional","All criminals turn preachers under the gallows."
"Traditional","All good things must come to an end."
"Traditional","All is fair in love and war."
"Traditional","All men are mortal."
"Traditional","All roads lead to Rome."
"Traditional","All that glitters is not gold."
"Traditional","All the world loves a lover."
"Traditional","A priest sees people at their best, a lawyer at their worst, but a doctor sees them as they really are."
"Traditional","After a storm comes a calm."
"Traditional","A rotten egg cannot be spoiled."
"Traditional","A man with a watch knows what time it is. A man with two watches is never sure."
"Traditional","A mill cannot grind with the water that is past."
"Traditional","A miss is as good as a mile."
"Traditional","A misty morning does not signify a cloudy day."
"Traditional","A mother's heart is always with her children."
"Traditional","A nod is as good as a wink to a blind horse."
"Traditional","A penny saved is a penny earned."
"Traditional","A person with a bad name is already half-hanged."
"Traditional","A poet is born not made."
"Traditional","A reconciled friend is a double enemy."
"Traditional","A woman's place is in the home."
"Traditional","A rich widow weeps with one eye and signals with the other."
"Traditional","All's grist that comes to the mill."
"Traditional","A scalded cat dreads cold water."
"Traditional","A sense of humor is the pole that adds balance to our steps as we walk the tightrope of life."
"Traditional","A soft answer turneth away wrath."
"Traditional","A spur in the head is worth two in the heel."
"Traditional","A still tongue makes a wise head."
"Traditional","A stitch in time saves nine."
"Traditional","A Sunday well-spent brings a week of content."
"Traditional","A tale never loses in the telling."
"Traditional","A trouble shared is a trouble halved."
"Traditional","A watched pot never boils."
"Traditional","A rich child often sits in a poor mothers lap."
"Traditional","Imagination gallops; judgment merely walks."
"Traditional","If you can't be good, be careful."
"Traditional","If you can't get people to listen to you any other way, tell them it's confidential."
"Traditional","If you don't stand for something, you will fall for something."
"Traditional","If you have to swallow a frog, try not to think about it. If you have to swallow two frogs, don't swallow the smaller one first."
"Traditional","If you play with fire you get burned."
"Traditional","If you trust before you try, you may repent before you die."
"Traditional","If you want a thing well done, do it yourself."
"Traditional","If you want to be revenged, hold your tongue."
"Traditional","If you want to know what a man is really like, notice how he acts when he loses money."
"Traditional","He who drinks a little too much drinks much too much."
"Traditional","If you wish for peace be ready for war."
"Traditional","If the mountain will not come to Mahomet, Mahomet must go to the mountain."
"Traditional","Live and learn."
"Traditional","In calm water every ship has a good captain."
"Traditional","In for a penny, in for a pound."
"Traditional","In teaching others we teach ourselves."
"Traditional","In times of trouble leniency becomes crime."
"Traditional","Indecision is the key to flexibility."
"Traditional","It always takes a person much longer to tell you what he thinks than what he knows."
"Traditional","It is a long lane that has no turning."
"Traditional","It is better to be born lucky than rich."
"Traditional","It is better to be without a wife for a bit than without tobacco for an hour."
"Traditional","If you want your eggs hatched, sit on them yourself."
"Traditional","History repeats itself."
"Traditional","He who fears to suffer, suffers from fear."
"Traditional","He who gives when he is asked has waited too long."
"Traditional","He who hesitates is lost."
"Traditional","He who is slow to anger has great understanding, but he who has a hasty temper exalts folly."
"Traditional","He who lives by medical prescriptions lives miserably."
"Traditional","He who lives by the sword dies by the sword."
"Traditional","He who pays the piper calls the tune."
"Traditional","He who rides a tiger is afraid to dismount."
"Traditional","He who sings, frightens away all his ills."
"Traditional","He who sups with the devil should have a long spoon."
"Traditional","If we did not flatter ourselves the flattery from others would not harm us."
"Traditional","Health is better than wealth."
"Traditional","If the young knew and the old could, there is nothing that couldn't be done."
"Traditional","Hoist your sail when the wind is fair."
"Traditional","Hope for the best."
"Traditional","How beautiful is it to do nothing, and then rest afterward."
"Traditional","How to dress? When the money is going from you wear anything you like. When the money is coming to you, dress your best."
"Traditional","Hunger is a good cook."
"Traditional","I don't want the cheese; I just want out of the trap."
"Traditional","If a job's worth doing, it's worth doing well."
"Traditional","If an ass goes traveling it will not come home a horse."
"Traditional","If ifs and ans were pots and pans, there'd be no trade for tinkers."
"Traditional","It is easy to be wise after the event."
"Traditional","He who will not prosper in his sleep will not prosper when awake."
"Traditional","Let sleeping dogs lie."
"Traditional","It is better to finish something than begin."
"Traditional","Knowledge, humbles a great person, astonishes the common, and puffs up the small."
"Traditional","Laugh and grow fat."
"Traditional","Laugh before breakfast, you'll cry before supper."
"Traditional","Laughter is the best medicine."
"Traditional","Law cannot persuade when it cannot punish."
"Traditional","Lawyers and painters can soon make what's black, white."
"Traditional","Lawyers and woodpeckers have long bills."
"Traditional","Least said soonest mended."
"Traditional","Leave well alone."
"Traditional","Kings have many ears and eyes."
"Traditional","Let not turn fun to mischief."
"Traditional","Kind words are worth much and they cost little."
"Traditional","Let the cobbler stick to his last."
"Traditional","Let them be birds."
"Traditional","Life is just a bowl of cherries."
"Traditional","Life is sweet."
"Traditional","Like breeds like."
"Traditional","Like father, like son."
"Traditional","Listeners never hear good of themselves."
"Traditional","Little enemies and little wounds must not be despised."
"Traditional","A piece of churchyard fits everybody."
"Traditional","Eat and drink measurely, and defy the mediciners."
"Traditional","Let bygones be bygones."
"Traditional","It will be all the same in a hundred years."
"Traditional","He who won't be ruled by the rudder must be ruled by the rock."
"Traditional","It is easy to bear the misfortunes of others."
"Traditional","It is never too late to ask what time it is."
"Traditional","It is no use crying over spilt milk."
"Traditional","It is not necessary to fall into a well to know its depth."
"Traditional","It is prosperity that gives us friends, adversity that proves them."
"Traditional","It is the fate of the great ones of this earth, to be appreciated only after they are gone."
"Traditional","It may be said that noisy barrels are easier to carry."
"Traditional","It never rains but it pours."
"Traditional","It takes two to make a quarrel."
"Traditional","Knowledge is the mother of all virtue; all vice proceeds from ignorance."
"Traditional","It will all come right in the wash."
"Traditional","It is better to run back than run the wrong way."
"Traditional","It's an ill wind that blows nobody any good."
"Traditional","It's too late to shut the stable door after the horse has bolted."
"Traditional","It's tough trying to keep your feet on the ground, your head above the clouds, your nose to the grindstone, your shoulder to the wheel, your finger on the pulse, your eye on the ball and your ear to the ground."
"Traditional","Jack of all trades, master of none."
"Traditional","Just when you think you've finally hit bottom, someone tosses you a shovel."
"Traditional","Keep something for a rainy day."
"Traditional","Keep your eye on the ball and your head in the game."
"Traditional","Keep your mouth shut and your eyes open."
"Traditional","Keep your weather-eye open."
"Traditional","Kill not the goose that lays the golden egg."
"Traditional","It takes two to tango."
"Traditional","He who does not research has nothing to teach."
"Traditional","Fight fire with fire."
"Traditional","Find a cruel man and you see a coward."
"Traditional","Finders keepers, losers weepers."
"Traditional","Fine feathers make fine birds."
"Traditional","Fire is never a gentle master."
"Traditional","Fire, water, and government know nothing of mercy."
"Traditional","First come, first served."
"Traditional","First deserve then desire."
"Traditional","First impressions are the most lasting."
"Traditional","First the man takes a drink, then the drink takes a drink, then the drink takes the man."
"Traditional","Forgive and forget."
"Traditional","Fish and guests smell in three days."
"Traditional","Experience is the mother of science."
"Traditional","Follow love and it will flee, flee love and it will follow."
"Traditional","Fools and obstinate men make lawyers rich."
"Traditional","Fools live poor to die rich."
"Traditional","Footprints on the sands of time are not made by sitting down."
"Traditional","For those who believe, no proof is necessary. For those who don't believe, no proof is possible."
"Traditional","For want of a nail the shoe was lost; for want of a shoe the horse was lost; for want of a horse the rider was lost."
"Traditional","Forbidden fruit is sweet."
"Traditional","Force is that which rules the actions without regulating the will."
"Traditional","Force without forecast is to little avail."
"Traditional","Forewarned is forearmed."
"Traditional","Hedges between keep friendships green."
"Traditional","Every little helps."
"Traditional","Eat the wind and swallow bitterness."
"Traditional","Eat to live and not live to eat."
"Traditional","Empty vessels make the greatest sound."
"Traditional","Even a worm will turn."
"Traditional","Even light takes a decade to travel ten light-years."
"Traditional","Even rabbits insult an dead lion."
"Traditional","Ever since dying came into fashion, life hasn't been safe."
"Traditional","Every cloud has a silver lining."
"Traditional","Every convenience brings its own inconveniences along with it."
"Traditional","Every dog has his day."
"Traditional","Fear of death is worse than death itself."
"Traditional","Every family has a skeleton in the cupboard."
"Traditional","Faith will move mountains."
"Traditional","Every man after his fashion."
"Traditional","Every man for himself, and the devil take the hindmost."
"Traditional","Every man is his own worst enemy."
"Traditional","Every man to his trade."
"Traditional","Every one is innocent until he is proved guilty."
"Traditional","Every one to his taste."
"Traditional","Everyone is given the key to the gates of Heaven. The same key opens the gates of Hell."
"Traditional","Everyone should carefully observe which way his heart draws him, and then choose that way with all his strength."
"Traditional","Everything comes to him who waits."
"Traditional","Experience is the best teacher."
"Traditional","Live today for tomorrow it will all be history."
"Traditional","Every dog is allowed one bite."
"Traditional","He that has no wife, beats her oft."
"Traditional","Grief is light that is capable of counsel."
"Traditional","Hair does not grow faster by being pulled."
"Traditional","Half a loaf is better than no bread."
"Traditional","Handsome is as handsome does."
"Traditional","Haste makes waste."
"Traditional","He has hard work who has nothing to do."
"Traditional","He helps little that helps not himself."
"Traditional","He loses his thanks who promises and delays."
"Traditional","He suffered from paralysis by analysis."
"Traditional","Four things come not back: the spoken word, the spent arrow, the past life, and the neglected opportunity."
"Traditional","Grey hairs are death's blossoms."
"Traditional","First things first."
"Traditional","He that fights and runs away, may live to fight another day."
"Traditional","He that is doing nothing is seldom in need of helpers."
"Traditional","He that is his own lawyer has a fool for a client."
"Traditional","He that is uneasy at every little pain is never without some ache."
"Traditional","He that knows little, often repeats it."
"Traditional","He that knows nothing, doubts nothing."
"Traditional","He that lives long suffers much."
"Traditional","He who allows his day to pass by without practicing generosity and enjoying life's pleasures is like a blacksmith's bellows. He breathes, but does not live."
"Traditional","He who begins and does not finish loves their pains."
"Traditional","He who can lick can bite."
"Traditional","He who does not have common sense at age thirty will never have it."
"Traditional","He that has no children brings them up well."
"Traditional","Go as far as you can see, and when you get there you'll see further."
"Traditional","Great thieves punish little ones."
"Traditional","From our ancestors come our names from our virtues our honor."
"Traditional","Gifts dissolve rocks."
"Traditional","Gifts make their way through stone walls."
"Traditional","Give a dog a bad name and hang him."
"Traditional","Give a thief enough rope and he'll hang himself."
"Traditional","From listening comes wisdom and from speaking, repentance."
"Traditional","Give him an inch and he'll take a yard."
"Traditional","Gluttony kills more than the sword."
"Traditional","Go to bed with the lamb, and rise with the lark."
"Traditional","God defend me from my friends; from my enemies I can defend myself."
"Traditional","Gossiping and lying go hand in hand."
"Traditional","Great oaks from little acorns grow."
"Traditional","Great minds think alike."
"Traditional","Give neither counsel or salt till you are asked for it."
"Traditional","Great gaps may be filled with small stones."
"Traditional","From clogs to clogs is only three generations."
"Traditional","Good men must die, but death cannot kill their names."
"Traditional","Good habits result from resisting temptation."
"Traditional","Good advice is beyond all price."
"Traditional","God sends us meat, the devil sends us cooks."
"Traditional","God helps them that help themselves."
"Traditional","Great is the victory that is gained without bloodshed."
"Tshi","In order to find evildoers, every human being is given a name."
"Tshi","If they are uttering insults and don't mean you, and yet you reply, you have condemned yourself."
"Tshi","No matter how generous you are, you don't give your wife away."
"Tshi","The one who is looking for a wife doesn't speak contemptuously of women."
"Tshi","The animal that is coming to be killed does not hear the hunter cough."
"Tshi","Perhaps you will eat a whole elephant and nothing gets stuck in your throat, and then you eat a fish and a bone gets stuck in your throat."
"Tshi","No one roasts rotten meat and puts it in the mouth of their friend and then says 'you mouth stinks.'"
"Tshi","It is because of man we wear swords."
"Tshi","If you have no time to take care of your sickness, you get time to die."
"Tshi","The rabbit has a saying which goes: 'if you were born a male then you are given impossible tasks.'"
"Tshi","If you are merciful to the antelope, you go to bed hungry."
"Tshi","When a child knows how to wash his hands well, he eats with the elders."
"Tshi","If there had been no poverty in europe, then the white man would not have come and spread his clothes in africa."
"Tshi","If someone hates you, don't let her find you hateful."
"Tshi","If everyone helps to hold up the sky, then one person does not become tired."
"Tshi","If a man is unhappy, his conduct is the cause."
"Tshi","At someone's funeral we weep for our own mothers and fathers."
"Tshi","Although the horse is stupid, it does not follow that the rider is stupid."
"Tshi","A tree that has grown bent for thirty years cannot be straightened in one year."
"Tshi","'hit me but i must not hit you' is no game at all."
"Tshi","If you go to a rat's village and it is eating palm nuts, you eat some too."
"Tshi","When a fool is told a proverb, it has to be explained to him."
"Tshi","When a yam doesn't grow well, we don't blame it; it is because of the soil."
"Tshi","The place where you are happy is better than the place you were born."
"Tswana","The cripple is fair in its mother's eyes."
"Tswana","You can't keep a bull in the Kraal."
"Tswana","What is seen is seen by all."
"Tswana","We are people because of other people."
"Tswana","To travel is to see."
"Tswana","To kiss the child is to kiss the mother."
"Tswana","To give away is to make provision for the future."
"Tswana","The mother is she who catches the knife by the blade."
"Tswana","Plenty is like the mist."
"Tswana","If you are too smart to pay the doctor, you had better be too smart to get sick."
"Tswana","He who offended forgets, but he who suffered from the offense does not."
"Tswana","Famine hides under the granary."
"Tswana","Eyes can see widely: They can cross a river in full flood."
"Tswana","Eating without sharing is like swearing with your mouth."
"Tswana","The quick one may not win; the enduring one will."
"Tuareg","In life, it is always possible to reach agreement in the end."
"Tuareg","Better to walk without knowing where than to sit doing nothing."
"Tuareg","Houses are the graves of the living."
"Tuareg","To him who puts a cord around his neck, God will supply someone to pull it."
"Tuareg","Luxury begins the day a man starts wearing shoes."
"Tuareg","Where water flows freely, people live in affluence."
"Tuareg","When the plough enters a house, so does the condition of the family become vile."
"Tuareg","When the music changes, then the rhythm of the dance must change also."
"Tuareg","What I wish best for myself, I wish it for my friends too."
"Tuareg","That which you do not need will kill you."
"Tuareg","Men and women towards each other are for the eyes and the heart, and not only for the bed."
"Tuareg","It is better to see for oneself than to be informed by a third person."
"Tuareg","The harm done by an elephant is like that done by a storm, or by the government."
"Tuareg","Salt doesn't say it's salty."
"Tumbuka","Authority is in generosity."
"Tunisian","They asked the female cat why her kittens were of different colors; she said she is embarrassed to say no."
"Tunisian","If you are ugly, be winsome."
"Tunisian","If your friend is honey, don't lick him thoroughly."
"Tunisian","No one will say, ""My father is incontinent."" Everyone will say, ""He is a man of advice and wisdom."""
"Tunisian","One hundred alcoholics are better than one gambler."
"Tunisian","Pretend that you are crazy, you will live."
"Tunisian","The anger of a woman is mighty and the devil's trickery weak."
"Tunisian","The bald woman boasts of her sister's hair."
"Tunisian","The multitude is stronger than the king."
"Tunisian","There is no blindness but the blindness of the heart."
"Tunisian","They asked the mule who his father was."
"Tunisian","If there is any profit in partnership, two will share a woman."
"Tunisian","We praised the bride, and she was found pregnant."
"Tunisian","You should have done it on the wedding night, you fool."
"Tunisian","They ate our food, and forgot our names."
"Tunisian","The only difference between the cucumber and water is the moving of the teeth."
"Tunisian","He said, ""My uncle is the horse."""
"Tunisian","Who came back from the grave and told the story?"
"Tunisian","If the tail of the dog can save me, I don't care about its stench."
"Tunisian","A bull went to impregnate a cow, and he came back a fetus."
"Tunisian","After I saw what my mother did, I will never trust a widow."
"Tunisian","Because he has so many trades, he is unemployed."
"Tunisian","He ate one fig and he thought the autumn had come."
"Tunisian","He who is covered with other people's clothes is naked."
"Tunisian","He who spends a night with a chicken will cackle in the morning."
"Tunisian","He who wants to be famous will have many a sleepless night."
"Tunisian","Hit him with a bean, he will break."
"Tunisian","How lovely is the sun after rain, and how lovely is laughter after sorrow."
"Tunisian","If he gives you a rope, tie him with it."
"Tunisian","If my belly is of glass, I will fill it with bread and chicken; if it is a closed cellar, I will fill it with cockroaches."
"Tunisian","If someone hits you with a stone, hit him with bread; your bread will return to you and his stone will return to him."
"Tunisian","If the full moon loves you, why worry about the stars?"
"Tunisian","Don't trust the horses if they run away, or the whores if they repent."
"Tupur","The day never turns back again."
"Tupuri","If you really love something, your fate is in its hands."
"Tupuri","The laziness of youths is worse than war."
"Tupuri","Who owns too much, remains unhappy."
"Tupuri","The monkey is a thief because it does not work."
"Tupuri","If you want something, you must work for it."
"Tupuri","Do not put your head in front of your words."
"Tupuri","The day does not return."
"Tupuri","One glass can ruin all the beer."
"Turkish","Be thine enemy an ant, see in him an elephant.."
"Turkish","A thousand regrets do not cancel one debt."
"Turkish","Who gossips to you will gossip of you."
"Turkish","He that speaks truth must have one foot in the stirrup."
"Turkish","There is no reply to the ignorant like keeping silence."
"Turkish","Two watermelons can not be held under one arm."
"Turkish","What flares up fast, extinguishes soon."
"Turkish","Measure a thousand times and cut once."
"Turkish","Who seeks a friend without faults dies alone."
"Turkish","Who gossips to you will gossip about you."
"Turkish","When you tell the truth, have one foot in the stirrup."
"Turkish","Good advice is given; good esteem is no given."
"Turkish","He that falls to-day may be up again to-morrow."
"Turkish","Call the bear ""Uncle"" till you are safe across the bridge."
"Turkish","Call your husband cuckold in jest, an he'll never suspect you."
"Turkish","Do not search for a calf under an ox."
"Turkish","Even though you know a thousand things, ask the man who knows one."
"Turkish","Even too much praise is a burden."
"Turkish","An Englishman's word is his bond."
"Turkish","Good actions are never lost."
"Turkish","An Englishman's home is his castle."
"Turkish","Having two ears and one tongue, we should listen twice as much as we speak."
"Turkish","Hawks will not pick out hawk's eyes."
"Turkish","He that conceals his grief finds no remedy for it."
"Turkish","He that considers in prosperity; will be less afflicted in adversity."
"Turkish","He that converses not knows nothing."
"Turkish","There is no royal road to learning."
"Turkish","God postpones, he does not overlook."
"Turkish","A thread-bare coat is armour proof against highwaymen."
"Turkish","A defeated wrestler is not tired of wrestling."
"Turkish","A heart in love with beauty never grows old."
"Turkish","A knife wound heals; a wound caused by words does not."
"Turkish","A man does not seek his luck, luck seeks its man."
"Turkish","A person does not seek luck; luck seeks the person."
"Turkish","A single advantage is worth a thousand sorceries."
"Turkish","Be thine enemy an ant, see in him an elephant."
"Turkish","A thousand years hence the river will run as it did."
"Turkish","He that fears danger in time seldom feels it."
"Turkish","A true word needs no oath."
"Turkish","Abundance is from activity."
"Turkish","An ass does not appreciate fruit compote."
"Turkish","An ember burns where it falls."
"Turkish","An emmet may work its heart out, but can never make honey."
"Turkish","An Englishman will burn his bed to catch a flea."
"Turkish","A thousand regrets do not cancel one debt."
"Turkish","The cheese vessel will not sail merely by words."
"Turkish","Two watermelons cannot be held under one arm."
"Turkish","Two captains will sink the ship."
"Turkish","Two captains sink the ship."
"Turkish","Tomorrow is another day."
"Turkish","To believe a business impossible is the way to make it so."
"Turkish","To beg of the miser is to dig a trench in the sea."
"Turkish","There is no right way to do a wrong thing."
"Turkish","The raven sees its chickens as falcons."
"Turkish","He that falls by himself never cries."
"Turkish","The plumber's house always leaks."
"Turkish","What a man suffers is the punishment of his tongue."
"Turkish","The baker's child goes hungry."
"Turkish","The account of the donkey is different from that of the donkey-man."
"Turkish","He who gives little gives from his heart; he who gives much gives from his wealth."
"Turkish","He that feeds upon charity has a cold dinner and no supper."
"Turkish","He that speaks truth must have one foot in the stirrup."
"Turkish","The point in question is yet undecided."
"Turkish","He that speaks, sows; he that hears, reaps."
"Turkish","Sorrow is to the soul what the worm is to wood."
"Turkish","He who has no bread has no authority."
"Turkish","If you speak the truth, keep a foot in the stirrup."
"Turkish","Keep the tongue in your mouth a prisoner."
"Turkish","Measure a thousand times and cut once."
"Turkish","No camel route is long with good company."
"Turkish","No matter how far you have gone on the wrong road, turn back."
"Turkish","Patience is the key to paradise."
"Turkish","He that speaks without care shall remember with sorrow."
"Turkish","The horse can die from too much barley."
"Turkish","The governor must fill your jars."
"Turkish","The mill won't turn with carried water."
"Turkish","The green twig is easily bent."
"Turkish","The hare was offended with the mountain, but the mountain did not notice."
"Turkish","The hazelnut emerged from its shell and did not like the look of it."
"Turkish","The highway is always shorter than the unknown side roads."
"Turkish","The house that receives no guests, never receives angels."
"Turkish","The ink of the scholar is more precious than the blood of martyrs."
"Turkish","The liar's house burned, but nobody believed it."
"Turkish","The luckiest dies in his cradle."
"Turkish","The eagle does not feed on flies."
"Turkish","The gardener who loves roses is slave to a thousand thorns."
"Turkish","The head of the rooster that crows out of time will be cut off."
"Turkish","The frog saw how the horses were shod, so she also lifted up her foot."
"Turkish","The forest should be burned when a sapling grows wrongly."
"Turkish","The foot of a lamp is always the least lit."
"Turkish","The fool sings a love song to his wife, the wise man will talk about his dog."
"Turkish","The fool castrates himself in order that he could accuse his pregnant wife of adultery."
"Turkish","The fly is small, but it is big enough to make one sick."
"Turkish","The fish stinks from the head."
"Turkish","The first drink makes you a frisky gazelle, the second an impetuous zebra, the third a roaring lion, and with the fourth you become a silly donkey."
"Turkish","The father gave his son a vineyard, the son didn't give the father even a grape."
"Turkish","The most difficult master is the servant who became master."
"Turkish","The earth has ears, the wind has a voice."
"Turkish","The rose comes from the thorns that were born of roses."
"Turkish","The dog that is going to bite does not show its teeth."
"Turkish","The eyes of the bat are hurt by the light."
"Turkish","The account of the donkey is different from that of the donkey-man."
"Turkish","The value of youth will be known in old age."
"Turkish","The unqualified man desires to climb to the top; the bad man desires to sit at the head of the table."
"Turkish","The tree branch should be cut off before it becomes a limb."
"Turkish","The tool makes the hand proud."
"Turkish","The thief can lie, those he has stolen from cannot."
"Turkish","The stone will not move from its place unless head is put to head."
"Turkish","The stew of cheap meat will be tasteless."
"Turkish","The shroud has no pockets."
"Turkish","The shoemaker's child goes barefoot."
"Turkish","The sheik's miracles are those of his own telling."
"Turkish","The sheik cannot fly, but his disciple lets him fly."
"Turkish","The real capital of a man is a mirror worth two cents."
"Turkish","The sea never buys fish."
"Turkish","The mouth is not sweetened by saying ""Honey, honey."" So the music, so the people."
"Turkish","The real friend tells the bitter truth."
"Turkish","The dog that barks much does not bite."
"Turkish","The raven sees its chickens as falcons."
"Turkish","The priest does not eat pilav every day."
"Turkish","The point in question is yet undecided."
"Turkish","The plumber's toilet always leaks."
"Turkish","The plumber's house always leaks."
"Turkish","The place of your birth is less important than how you live."
"Turkish","The physician prescribes the medicine, the vulture waits for the body."
"Turkish","The one who enters the Turkish bath must never turn his back on a Greek."
"Turkish","The one who burns his mouth for drinking milk too hot, eats even yogurt carefully."
"Turkish","The nose of him whose guide is a crow will never get out of the shit."
"Turkish","The sheep separated from the flock is eaten by the wolf."
"Turkish","One cannot eat the meat of every bird."
"Turkish","The bear knows seven songs and they are all about honey."
"Turkish","Out of ten men there are nine wives."
"Turkish","Others are always interested in us, just as we are interested in them."
"Turkish","Order the lazybones a task and let him give you advice."
"Turkish","One who sows wind will reap hurricane."
"Turkish","One who handles honey, licks his fingers."
"Turkish","One searches for someone else's donkey while singing songs."
"Turkish","One scabbed sheep will taint a whole flock."
"Turkish","One night with an ugly woman and one day in the mountains both are like an eternity."
"Turkish","One must fill the pitcher while the water is flowing."
"Turkish","One must ask about the delight of opium from one who smokes it."
"Turkish","One hour of justice is worth seventy hours of prayer."
"Turkish","Patience is the key to paradise."
"Turkish","One eats while another watches -- that is how revolutions are begun."
"Turkish","Pot, your bottom is black. ""Yours is blacker than me."""
"Turkish","One by one we count the beans."
"Turkish","One bad experience is worth more than a thousand threats."
"Turkish","One arrow does not bring down two birds."
"Turkish","One armpit cannot hold two watermelons."
"Turkish","Oh, misfortune, I forgive you when you come alone."
"Turkish","Not he who lived long knows, but he who traveled much knows."
"Turkish","Not every stone will hurt your head."
"Turkish","None is so rich as to throw away a friend."
"Turkish","None is so rich as that he can throw away a friend."
"Turkish","No smoke will come out from a place where there is no fire."
"Turkish","No route is long with good company."
"Turkish","No route is long with good company."
"Turkish","One eats, another watches; that's how revolutions are born."
"Turkish","Study from new books but from old teachers."
"Turkish","The devil tempts all other men, but idle men tempt the devil."
"Turkish","The crow said: ""Oh, my snow-white child""."
"Turkish","The courteous learn their virtue from the discourteous."
"Turkish","The cornered rat will lick the balls of the cat."
"Turkish","The cock that crows at the wrong time is killed."
"Turkish","The cheese vessel will not sail merely by words."
"Turkish","The buyer of the rotten beans is the blind man."
"Turkish","The bride who brings a golden throne will sit on it herself."
"Turkish","The brave is known by his fame."
"Turkish","The village one can see requires no guide."
"Turkish","The baker's child goes hungry."
"Turkish","They put the blabbermouth in hell, and he shouted ""The wood is damp!"""
"Turkish","Patience is bitter, but its fruit is sweet."
"Turkish","Tell a lie on Saturday and you will be ashamed on Sunday."
"Turkish","The devil tempts all, but the idle tempt the devil."
"Turkish","Stick the needle into yourself before you thrust needles into others."
"Turkish","Speak of the dog, but take the stick into your hand."
"Turkish","Sorrow is to the soul what the worm is to wood."
"Turkish","Silence is music to a wise man."
"Turkish","Sighs never fall on the ground."
"Turkish","Sharp vinegar only damages its container."
"Turkish","Seek truth in meditation, not in moldy books. Look in the sky to find the moon, not in the pond."
"Turkish","Satan's friendship reaches to the prison door."
"Turkish","Satan's friendship reaches to the prison door."
"Turkish","Salt water and absence wash away love."
"Turkish","Property will not earn life, but life will earn property."
"Turkish","Poverty is a shirt of fire."
"Turkish","Tell me who your friend is, and I will tell you who you are."
"Turkish","Who gives the money will play the flute."
"Turkish","Who seeks a faultless friend remains friendless."
"Turkish","Who loves roses will endure the thorns."
"Turkish","Who lies with the blind gets up cross-eyed."
"Turkish","Who leaves no traces in the field, will be put to shame at harvest."
"Turkish","Who laughs last, laughs the best."
"Turkish","Who kisses the feet of his mother, kisses the step of Paradise."
"Turkish","Who is far from the eye will also be far from the heart."
"Turkish","Who has seen death will be content with illness."
"Turkish","Who has power in his hands has no need to lie; he uses violence."
"Turkish","Who has no intention to pray has no ears for the call to prayer."
"Turkish","Who has never been burned in the sun won't know the value of shadow."
"Turkish","They call one ""generous"" and make one lose one's property, they call one ""brave"" and make one lose one's soul."
"Turkish","Who goes near soot smells of soot, and who goes near musk smells of musk."
"Turkish","Who sows wind will reap a storm."
"Turkish","Who fears the sparrows must not sow millet."
"Turkish","Who falls into the sea will take hold even of a snake."
"Turkish","Who enters the Turkish bath will sweat."
"Turkish","Who eats it won't know the bitterness of the onion, but who chops it does."
"Turkish","Who does not bother will not have sons and daughters."
"Turkish","Who does not beat his own child will later beat his own breast."
"Turkish","Who burned himself with hot milk blows on ice cream."
"Turkish","Wherever you go, an okka is four hundred dirhem."
"Turkish","Where you were born is less important than how you live."
"Turkish","Where there is activity, there is fertility."
"Turkish","Where there are no sheep, they call the goat princess."
"Turkish","Where conceit and ignorance sit, grass will not grow again."
"Turkish","Who gossips to you will gossip about you."
"Turkish","You can proclaim the truth also in a friendly way."
"Turkish","No rose without a thorn, or a love without a rival."
"Turkish","You will reap whatever you sow."
"Turkish","You should kiss the hand that you can't bend."
"Turkish","You may lie, but not too much."
"Turkish","A building without foundation is soon demolished."
"Turkish","You master, I master, who milking this cow?"
"Turkish","Your five year old son is your instructor; at ten your slave; at fifteen your equal and after that either friend or foe."
"Turkish","You harvest what you sow."
"Turkish","You don't wash blood away with blood but with water."
"Turkish","You don't steal a bitter eggplant."
"Turkish","You don't have to know much to read, but you do to cook."
"Turkish","You cannot get into Paradise without a guide."
"Turkish","Who seeks a friend without faults dies alone."
"Turkish","You can tell a lion from where he dwells."
"Turkish","Who sows wheat with the devil will get its chaff."
"Turkish","You can find no pomegranates on a willow tree, nor shame in the wicked."
"Turkish","Wormy beans will have blind buyers."
"Turkish","Without effort there is no food."
"Turkish","With talking the cheese ship won't move."
"Turkish","With gold I can buy things; with thinking I can understand things."
"Turkish","Winnowing is with the wind, wedding is with the people."
"Turkish","Wine that isn't paid for is drunk twice."
"Turkish","Whoever has the Seal, he is Solomon."
"Turkish","Who wants yoghurt in winter must carry a cow in his pocket."
"Turkish","Who steals the minaret will have a cover ready."
"Turkish","Who stands up with anger will sit down with loss."
"Turkish","When violence comes into the house, law and justice leave through the chimney."
"Turkish","You cannot forge a good sword from bad iron."
"Turkish","They put the nightingale into a golden cage, yet it still craved for its home."
"Turkish","When you tell the truth, have one foot in the stirrup."
"Turkish","To live in peace one must be blind, deaf, and mute."
"Turkish","To listen to a lie is harder than to tell it."
"Turkish","To believe a business impossible is the way to make it so."
"Turkish","To beg of the miser is to dig a trench in the sea."
"Turkish","To a good rider, right or left makes no difference."
"Turkish","Time is cash."
"Turkish","Those who conceal their grief find no remedy for it."
"Turkish","Things that are weak will break -- as men do who think they are strong."
"Turkish","Things never go so well that one should have no fear, and never so ill that one should have no hope."
"Turkish","They will expel him who speaks the truth from nine villages."
"Turkish","They throw stones at a tree with fruit."
"Turkish","To quote lies is also lying."
"Turkish","They put up minds for sale on the market, everyone liked his own mind."
"Turkish","Today's egg is better than tomorrow's hen."
"Turkish","They made the garlic a bride, its smell did not come out for forty days."
"Turkish","They asked the wolf: ""Why is your neck thick?"", and it said: ""I do my job myself, that's why."""
"Turkish","There lies a lion in every heart."
"Turkish","There isn't a sword that would cut off a golden hand."
"Turkish","There is not a single season without fruit."
"Turkish","There is no royal road to learning."
"Turkish","There is no right way to do a wrong thing."
"Turkish","There is no reply to the ignorant like keeping silence."
"Turkish","There is no remedy for what will be and who will die."
"Turkish","There are many words that are like salted jam."
"Turkish","There are many who throw stones at a red apple."
"Turkish","The world is like that: one gives a melon, the other gets the stomach cramps."
"Turkish","They sowed ""if only"" and ""if found"", and wind and waste sprang up."
"Turkish","What business does a dog have in the shop of the blacksmith."
"Turkish","The wise man says what he knows; the fool doesn't know what he is saying."
"Turkish","When two jars collide, one breaks."
"Turkish","When the flock makes an about-face, the stragglers become leaders."
"Turkish","When the bundles of tobacco are ready, dancing begins."
"Turkish","When it sees money, the flute will play itself."
"Turkish","When God wants to please a poor man, He lets him lose his donkey and then helps him find it again."
"Turkish","When bribery enters through the door, faith goes out through the chimney."
"Turkish","When a rich man falls they say it was an accident; when a poor man falls they say that he was drunk."
"Turkish","Whatever the thoughts of the dervish, so are his formulas."
"Turkish","What is salt to tasteless food, what is a word to a foolish head?"
"Turkish","What is loaned will go away smiling and come back crying."
"Turkish","What flares up fast, extinguishes soon."
"Turkish","To one who understands, a mosquito is a lute, to one who does not understand, a drum and zurna are little."
"Turkish","What comes from ah. will go to oh."
"Turkish","When you see a snake, never mind where he came from."
"Turkish","What a man suffers is the punishment of his tongue."
"Turkish","What a man is at seven is also what he is at seventy."
"Turkish","We will burn a blanket to kill a flea."
"Turkish","Vinegar that is too sour even taints the glass it's kept in."
"Turkish","Vinegar that costs nothing is sweeter than honey."
"Turkish","Two watermelons can not be held under one arm."
"Turkish","Two heads are better than one."
"Turkish","Two captains will sink the ship."
"Turkish","Two captains sink the ship."
"Turkish","Too much sympathy with the unfortunate makes you unhappy."
"Turkish","Too much prudishness makes the lover sick."
"Turkish","Tomorrow is another day."
"Turkish","What does one hand have? Two hands make a sound."
"Turkish","Call your husband cuckold in jest, an he'll never suspect you."
"Turkish","Dogs bark, but the caravan goes on."
"Turkish","Do well the little things now; so shall great things come to thee by and by asking to be done."
"Turkish","Do not search for a calf under an ox."
"Turkish","Do not roll up your trousers before reaching the stream."
"Turkish","Do not leave to the morning the business of the evening."
"Turkish","Do good and throw it into the sea; if the fish don't know it, god will."
"Turkish","Demand a kiss from a fat woman, and be ready to receive a sweet taste."
"Turkish","Death is the black camel that kneels before every door."
"Turkish","Death is a black camel that lies down at every door. Sooner or later you must ride the camel."
"Turkish","Cotton cannot play with fire."
"Turkish","Coffee should be black as Hell, strong as death, and sweet as love."
"Turkish","An Englishman's home is his castle."
"Turkish","Care for your horse as a friend; ride it as if it were an enemy."
"Turkish","Don't believe in foretellings but don't stay without them."
"Turkish","Call the bear $quot;Uncle"" till you are safe across the bridge."
"Turkish","Call the bear ""Uncle"" till you are safe across the bridge."
"Turkish","Better your enemy who you recognize than a dark friend."
"Turkish","Before you love, learn to run through snow without leaving footprints."
"Turkish","Beauty passes, wisdom remains."
"Turkish","Beauty passes, but perfection remains with us."
"Turkish","Be thine enemy an ant, see in him an elephant.."
"Turkish","Barking dogs don't bite."
"Turkish","As the crow tried to imitate the partridge, it forgot its own walking style."
"Turkish","Anyone can make a spoon, but not everyone can make the handle."
"Turkish","An orphan cuts his own umbilical cord."
"Turkish","Fear does not empty tomorrow of its sadness; it empties today of its power."
"Turkish","Cocks that crow too early will quickly find themselves in the pot."
"Turkish","Even if the whole world conspired against you -- that would not inflict a quarter of the harm you inflict yourself."
"Turkish","No matter how much snow falls, it won't remain there all the way till summer."
"Turkish","Everything is worn out with usage -- except for experience."
"Turkish","A defeated wrestler is not tired of wrestling."
"Turkish","Everyone admires his own character."
"Turkish","Every thing is best when new, a friend and wine are best when old."
"Turkish","Every sheep will be hanged from its own legs."
"Turkish","Every sheep is hung by his own leg."
"Turkish","Every rooster crows in its own pen."
"Turkish","Every person admires his own character."
"Turkish","Even too much praise is a burden."
"Turkish","Even though you know a thousand things, ask the man who knows one."
"Turkish","Even the thinnest piece of meat will happily marry a piece of bread."
"Turkish","Don't ask an innkeeper the way."
"Turkish","Even if you know a thousand things, still consult him who knows something."
"Turkish","Don't be fooled by how clean the turban is, the soap was probably bought on credit."
"Turkish","Entrust not your goats nor sheep to the unmarried Shepherd."
"Turkish","Empty words will not fill an empty stomach."
"Turkish","Drop by drop, it will make a pond."
"Turkish","Drop by drop the lake is formed."
"Turkish","Don't tread on the tail of a sleeping snake."
"Turkish","Don't tell your secret to your friend, he will tell it to his friend."
"Turkish","Don't speak sweet words when your deeds are of stone."
"Turkish","Don't sell the fish that is still swimming in the ocean."
"Turkish","Don't say amen to an unacceptable prayer."
"Turkish","Don't look at the shape -- look at the character."
"Turkish","Don't lie down in low places, flood will take you, don't lie down in high places, wind will take you."
"Turkish","An Englishman will burn his bed to catch a flea."
"Turkish","Even the rich man's rooster lays eggs."
"Turkish","A hungry bear won't dance."
"Turkish","A pear will fall to its root."
"Turkish","A man without grief is not a man."
"Turkish","A man will sacrifice his head to conquer a heart."
"Turkish","A man who seeks a perfect friend, will remain friendless."
"Turkish","A man does not seek his luck, luck seeks its man."
"Turkish","A madman drops a stone in a well, but forty wise men cannot take it out."
"Turkish","A liar's house is on fire and no one believes him."
"Turkish","A liar's candle will burn until bed-time."
"Turkish","A knife-wound heals, but a tongue wound festers."
"Turkish","A knife wound heals; a wound caused by words does not."
"Turkish","A hungry man thinks he won't be satiated, a thirsty man thinks he won't be quenched."
"Turkish","An Englishman's word is his bond."
"Turkish","A hungry dog will bring a lion down."
"Turkish","A rich man will get his carriage over the mountains, a poor man will lose his way on a level plain."
"Turkish","A horse knows his rider by his spurs."
"Turkish","A heart in love with beauty never grows old."
"Turkish","A guest will not eat what he hopes for but what he finds."
"Turkish","A gold sword opens an iron door."
"Turkish","A full pistol scares one person, an emty one scares forty people."
"Turkish","A friend is one soul in two bodies."
"Turkish","A fool finds no pleasure in understanding but delights in airing his own opinions."
"Turkish","A dog that intends to bite does not bare its teeth."
"Turkish","A chicken won't be grudged to a place a goose will come from."
"Turkish","A broke merchant counted his small change."
"Turkish","A bird will not fly with one wing."
"Turkish","If' and when"" were planted, and ""nothing"" grew."
"Turkish","A hungry hen sees herself in a wheat silo."
"Turkish","A tribulation is better than a hundred warnings."
"Turkish","An emmet may work its heart out, but can never make honey."
"Turkish","An ember burns where it falls."
"Turkish","An ass does not appreciate fruit compote."
"Turkish","Allah gave hunger to one and hunger to another."
"Turkish","All work is as seed sown; it grows and spreads, and sows itself anew."
"Turkish","Abundance is from activity."
"Turkish","Abundance doesn't know contentment, but contentment is abundance."
"Turkish","Ability has no school."
"Turkish","A worthy man is still worthy even penniless, a donkey is a donkey even if he is finely saddled."
"Turkish","A woman has advice only for another woman."
"Turkish","A white day sheds light, a black day sheds darkness."
"Turkish","A weapon is an enemy even to its owner."
"Turkish","A person does not seek luck; luck seeks the person."
"Turkish","A true word needs no oath."
"Turkish","A prudent man will read the letter from back to front."
"Turkish","A tongue has no bones but it can break."
"Turkish","A thread-bare coat is armour proof against highwaymen."
"Turkish","A thousand years hence the river will run as it did."
"Turkish","A thousand regrets do not cancel one debt."
"Turkish","A stupid friend is a greater plague than a wise enemy."
"Turkish","A son will learn from his father to make a living, a daughter will learn from her mother to cut clothes."
"Turkish","A single bad experience is worth a thousand threats."
"Turkish","A single advantage is worth a thousand sorceries."
"Turkish","A ship with two captains sinks."
"Turkish","A sheik's miracles are of his own telling."
"Turkish","A satiated man doesn't know what's hunger, a healthy man doesn't know what's disease."
"Turkish","Explaining something to an ignorant person is harder than making a camel jump over a ditch."
"Turkish","A village that you can see in a distance do not require a guide."
"Turkish","If you fall in a river hang on to a snake."
"Turkish","It is better to walk around a bush than fight with a dog."
"Turkish","Iron that works does not rust."
"Turkish","In the company of the blind, close your eyes."
"Turkish","In proportion as anger comes, sense departs."
"Turkish","In our eyes the neighbor's chicken is a goose."
"Turkish","In a village with too many roosters morning will come late."
"Turkish","If your guest becomes a cook, your larder will soon be empty."
"Turkish","If your beard's on fire, others will light their pipes on it."
"Turkish","If you weep for all the sorrows in this world, in the end you will have no eyes."
"Turkish","If you speak the truth, keep a foot in the stirrup."
"Turkish","If you speak the truth, have a foot in the stirrup."
"Turkish","If a fool has a lot of grease he will wipe it on his beard."
"Turkish","If you look for a faultless woman, you will remain a bachelor."
"Turkish","It is unclear who has money and who faith."
"Turkish","If you do not know what to say, say what your elders said."
"Turkish","If they say there is a wedding in the sky, women would try to put up a ladder."
"Turkish","If the world is flooded, it will be easy for the duck."
"Turkish","If the wind does not blow, the leaves do not move."
"Turkish","If the place you have arrived at is blind, blink your eye."
"Turkish","If the lady of the house breaks something it is an unfortunate accident; if the servant does, then it is a terrible disaster."
"Turkish","If the imam farts, the community will shit."
"Turkish","If the bald man knew a remedy he would rub it on his own head."
"Turkish","If speaking is silver, then listening is gold."
"Turkish","Everyone put up his mind for sale on the market, and liked his own mind."
"Turkish","If a stone falls on an egg, it is bad for the egg; if an egg falls onto a stone, it is still bad for the egg."
"Turkish","Feed a crow and it will pluck out your eyes."
"Turkish","If you search for a faultless woman, you will remain a bachelor."
"Turkish","Many will show the way after the carriage has overturned."
"Turkish","No matter how much snow falls, it won't remain there all the way till summer."
"Turkish","No matter how far you have gone on the wrong road, turn back."
"Turkish","No matter how far down a wrong road you are, turn back."
"Turkish","No flock without dog and shepherd."
"Turkish","No fat mouse in a widow's house."
"Turkish","No camel route is long with good company."
"Turkish","Never become a teacher where you yourself were a pupil."
"Turkish","Near the dry, the damp will burn."
"Turkish","Mountains won't endure on what lies ready."
"Turkish","Mountain won't meet mountain, but man will meet man."
"Turkish","Men make the earth black from green leaves."
"Turkish","Measure a thousand times, cut once."
"Turkish","It is easy for the single guy to divorce his wife."
"Turkish","March makes one look through the door, and makes one burn hoes and shovels."
"Turkish","It is not disgraceful to ask, it is disgraceful no to ask."
"Turkish","Man is his own mirror."
"Turkish","Man is harder than iron, stronger than stone, and more fragile than a rose."
"Turkish","Look at the mother before marrying the daughter."
"Turkish","Listen with both ears, but speak with only one tongue."
"Turkish","Kind words will get a snake out of its hole."
"Turkish","Killing two birds with one stone."
"Turkish","Keep the tongue in your mouth a prisoner."
"Turkish","Keep straw, its time will come."
"Turkish","It takes two turbans to make a wise head."
"Turkish","It matters less to a person where they are born than where they can live."
"Turkish","It is worms which destroy a tree, it is worry which destroys a man."
"Turkish","If a man would live in peace he should be blind, deaf, and dumb."
"Turkish","Measure a thousand times and cut once."
"Turkish","Habits don't expire until the soul expires."
"Turkish","He that fears you present will hate you absent."
"Turkish","If everything that came from your tongue were to come into your hands, then every beggar would be a pasha."
"Turkish","He that falls to-day may be up again to-morrow."
"Turkish","He that falls by himself never cries."
"Turkish","He that converses not knows nothing."
"Turkish","He that considers in prosperity; will be less afflicted in adversity."
"Turkish","He that conceals his grief finds no remedy for it."
"Turkish","He ran away from the rain and was caught in a hailstorm."
"Turkish","He became an infidel hesitating between two mosques."
"Turkish","Hawks will not pick out hawk's eyes."
"Turkish","Having two ears and one tongue, we should listen twice as much as we speak."
"Turkish","If a dog's prayers were answered, bones would rain from the sky."
"Turkish","Happiness is like crystal -- when it shines the most, it soon cracks."
"Turkish","He that feeds upon charity has a cold dinner and no supper."
"Turkish","Grapes will darken by looking a??t each other."
"Turkish","Good advice is given; good esteem is no given."
"Turkish","Good actions are never lost."
"Turkish","Gold that is lent goes away laughing and comes back in tears."
"Turkish","Gold takes no rust."
"Turkish","God postpones, he does not overlook."
"Turkish","God made low branches for birds that cannot fly so well."
"Turkish","Fruit of a tree falls near its roots."
"Turkish","Free vinegar is sweeter than honey."
"Turkish","For those in love, Baghdad is near Istanbul."
"Turkish","For the birds that cannot soar, God has provided low branches."
"Turkish","Fish only come to their senses after they are caught in the net."
"Turkish","Happy is he whose own faults prevent him from castigating the faults of others."
"Turkish","He who lives on hope, dies of starvation."
"Turkish","If a cat wants to eat her kittens, she'll say that they look like mice."
"Turkish","Idle men tempt the devil; the devil tempts all others."
"Turkish","I know nothing about it, I haven't seen it; that is the best answer."
"Turkish","I have rather an ass that carries me than a horse that throws me."
"Turkish","Hope won't be cut from the soul that has not expired."
"Turkish","Hope is the bread of the poor."
"Turkish","Honey is one thing, the price is another."
"Turkish","Hoist your sail when the wind is fair."
"Turkish","Heaven was inspired by the first judge to take a bribe."
"Turkish","He who wants to kill a dog says that he has urinated against the mosque."
"Turkish","He that fears danger in time seldom feels it."
"Turkish","He who steals honey, licks his fingers."
"Turkish","He that speaks truth must have one foot in the stirrup."
"Turkish","He who does evil to another, has done it to himself."
"Turkish","He that speaks without care shall remember with sorrow."
"Turkish","He that speaks, sows; he that hears, reaps."
"Turkish","He who asks for alms blushes once; he who refuses, twice."
"Turkish","He who talks without thinking dies without getting sick."
"Turkish","He who did not help building the minaret, thinks that it just grew out from the ground."
"Turkish","He who knows much makes many mistakes."
"Turkish","He who gets up in anger, sits down with a loss."
"Turkish","He who gives little gives from his heart; he who gives much gives from his wealth."
"Turkish","He who has no bread has no authority."
"Turkish","He who has no children has one sorrow, he who has children has a thousand sorrows."
"Turkish","He who has to be hanged, will not drown."
"Turkish","He who has wraps four, he who has not wraps trouble."
"Turkish","He who is only right hasn't really anything."
"Turkish","He who controls his tongue, saves his head."
"Tuscarora","Man has responsibility, not power."
"Twi","If your child is dancing clumsily, tell him: 'you are dancing clumsily'; do not tell him: 'darling, do as you please.'"
"Twi","People are the thing: if i call 'gold,' gold does not respond; if i call 'clothes,' clothes do not respond; people are the thing."
"Twi","You must eat an elephant one bite at a time."
"Twi","If you are honored, honor yourself."
"Twi","A man dies but his tongue does not rot."
"Twi","Ingratitude is sooner or later fatal to its author."
"Twi","If your part of the battlefield is covered with thorns, you do not leave your position and go to stand where the ground is good."
"Tywa","Without father - half orphan, without mother - complete orphan."
"Tywa","The mountain makes the horse suffer, anger makes oneself suffer."
"Tywa","There is no fish in well-water, there is no leaf on dry wood."
"Tywa","Today's lung is better than tomorrow's fat."
"Tywa","Tumbleweed entered the mouth of the lying camel."
"Tywa","Tumbleweed will not enter into the mouth of the lying camel."
"Tywa","When hitting the horn of a single cow, the horns of a thousand cows hurt."
"Tywa","The horn that came out last will pass the ear that came out first."
"Tywa","When water reaches up to the nose, the calf is a swimmer."
"Tywa","The hurrying mouse falls into the milk."
"Tywa","Without seeing the mountain, do not tuck up your skirt, without seeing the water, do not take off your boots."
"Tywa","Without wind, the ears of the grass do not move."
"Tywa","When there is killing weather, the dogs grow fat, when there is."
"Tywa","Even though his stomach is satiated, his eye will not be satiated."
"Tywa","A bird has a nest, man has a home."
"Tywa","A good person has many friends, a good horse has many masters."
"Tywa","A herdsman needs a staff, a door needs a bolt."
"Tywa","The old horse will not mistake the road."
"Tywa","Even though he misses his duck, he will not miss his lake."
"Tywa","The dog orders its tail."
"Tywa","Even though it is black, the raven loves its young."
"Tywa","Livestock become acquainted by neighing to one another, people become."
"Tywa","Man grows up, felt wears out."
"Tywa","Nutcrackers crack cedar seeds, monks crack rosary beads."
"Tywa","Small laziness leads to big laziness."
"Tywa","The camel stallion grows old, the camel foal grows up."
"Tywa","The child that falls by itself does not cry."
"Tywa","A spoken word, carved wood."
"Uganda","The hunter in pursuit of an elephant does not stop to throw stones at birds."
"Uganda","Never underestimate the power of stupid people in large numbers."
"Uganda","Women have no court."
"Uganda","When two elephants fight it is the grass that suffers."
"Uganda","When a man is in trouble he smokes."
"Uganda","To heal the lovers aching heart, Give him a virgin to wed."
"Uganda","The mother's breast cannot get leprosy."
"Uganda","The mother of the big he-goat has no horns."
"Uganda","One does not follow the footprints in the water."
"Uganda","One should never rub bottoms with a porcupine."
"Uganda","He who has not traveled thinks that his mother is the best cook in the world."
"Uganda","Even the mightiest eagle comes down to the tree tops to rest."
"Uganda","Even the mightest eagle comes down to the tree tops to rest."
"Uganda","Beautiful from behind, ugly in front."
"Uganda","A good harvest does not grow with ease; the more diligent the farmer, the more bountiful the crop."
"Ugandan","The person who has not traveled widely thinks his or her mother is the best cook."
"Ugandan","The husband is always the last to know."
"Ugandan","The hunter in pursuit of an elephant does not stop to throw stones at birds."
"Ugandan","Caution is not cowardice; even the ants march armed."
"Ugandan","Only take away the wife of a strong man when he is out."
"Ugandan","The man with one wife is the boss of all bachelors."
"Ugandan","The lucky eagle kills a mouse that has eaten salt."
"Ugandan","The husband is always the last to know."
"Ugandan","The hunter in pursuit of an elephant does not stop to throw stones at birds."
"Ugandan","The bird that pecks at a rock trusts in the strength of its beak."
"Ugandan","The best part of happiness lies is in the secret heart of a lover."
"Ugandan","Sickness accompanies a waning moon; a new moon cures disease."
"Ugandan","The path to your heart's desire is never overgrown."
"Ugandan","Polygamy makes a husband a double-tongued man."
"Ugandan","What is inside a package is known only to its owner."
"Ugandan","Only a fool tries to jump in the fire."
"Ugandan","One who sees something good must narrate it."
"Ugandan","She who keeps losing children doesn't invent names anymore."
"Ugandan","The peacemaker dies, while the fighters survive."
"Ugandan","The person who has not traveled widely thinks his or her mother is the best cook."
"Ugandan","Water that has been begged for does not quench the thirst."
"Ugandan","One who keeps saying 'I will listen and obey' will be cooked with the corn cob."
"Ugandan","When the master is away, the frogs hop in."
"Ugandan","When the moon is not full, the stars shine more brightly."
"Ugandan","When throne into the sea the stone said, 'after all, this is also a home.'"
"Ugandan","When two elephants fight the grass gets trampled."
"Ugandan","Where flies are eaten, eat them."
"Ugandan","With wealth one wins a woman."
"Ugandan","Women have no chiefs."
"Ugandan","You can burn down a house, but can you hide the smoke?"
"Ugandan","You must judge a woman by the taste of her soup."
"Ugandan","He who tells no lies will not grow up."
"Ugandan","The tongue of co-wives is bitter."
"Ugandan","A dog with a bone in his mouth cannot bite you."
"Ugandan","If he has thrown the only spear he had at you, it means that he doesn't fear you."
"Ugandan","'my mother is indeed the best baby carrier,' says the baby."
"Ugandan","Old men sit in the shade because they planted a tree many years before."
"Ugandan","A roaring lion kills no game."
"Ugandan","A sheep does not lament the death of a goat's kid."
"Ugandan","A strawberry blossom will not moisten dry bread."
"Ugandan","An elephant can never fail to carry its tusks."
"Ugandan","An infertile woman gets a lot of visitors."
"Ugandan","An ugly girl does not become old at home."
"Ugandan","Ask help from the spirits after having used all your strength."
"Ugandan","Caution is not cowardice; even the ants march armed."
"Ugandan","Death is a scar that never heals."
"Ugandan","Do not belittle what you did not cultivate."
"Ugandan","Empty hands only please their owner."
"Ugandan","It is better that trials come to you in the beginning and you find peace afterwards than that they come to you at the end."
"Ugandan","Even the mightiest eagle comes down to the treetops to rest."
"Ugandan","It is better to be married to an old lady than to remain unmarried."
"Ugandan","In the home of the coward they laugh while in the home of the brave they cry."
"Ugandan","In the entire world, things are two and two."
"Ugandan","If you have decided to eat a dog, eat a fat one."
"Ugandan","If you climb up a tree, you must climb down the same tree."
"Ugandan","If a woman sees a stick for beating her rival, she will throw it away in the woods."
"Ugandan","He who loves, loves you with your dirt."
"Ugandan","He who is bitten by a snake fears a lizard."
"Ugandan","He who hunts two rats, catches none."
"Ugandan","Men will love each other as long as one is richer than the other."
"Ugandan","Familiarity is like the sea that kills the fisherman."
"Ukrainian","He is guilty who is not at home."
"Ukrainian","The church is near, but the way is icy. The tavern is far, but I will walk carefully."
"Ukrainian","The tavern is far, but I will walk carefully."
"Ukrainian","The obliging fool is worse than an enemy."
"Ukrainian","The malicious cow disturbs the whole herd."
"Ukrainian","The lame man laughs at the blind."
"Ukrainian","The fear of death takes away the joy of living."
"Ukrainian","The earth will cover the doctor's mistakes."
"Ukrainian","The devil always takes back his gifts."
"Ukrainian","Only when you have eaten a lemon do you appreciate what sugar is."
"Ukrainian","Speak highly of the lake, but stay on the bank."
"Ukrainian","The word ""enough"" does not exist for water, fire, and women."
"Ukrainian","Who laughs at you also cries for you."
"Ukrainian","No wind is too cold for lovers."
"Ukrainian","The devil likes to hide behind a cross."
"Ukrainian","There are many lies but barely one truth."
"Ukrainian","There are no old friendships in business."
"Ukrainian","Those sitting above can easily spit on those below."
"Ukrainian","To see a friend no road is too long."
"Ukrainian","When the flag is unfurled, all reason is in the trumpet."
"Ukrainian","Your head is not only for putting a hat on."
"Ukrainian","Who gives in need, gives double."
"Ukrainian","Wisdom is in the head, not in the beard."
"Ukrainian","With a friendly word you get farther than with a club."
"Ukrainian","You can get farther with a friendly word than with a club."
"Ukrainian","You don't really see the world if you only look through your own window."
"Ukrainian","No matter how hard you try the bull will never give milk."
"Ukrainian","Love will find a way."
"Ukrainian","When you enter a great enterprise, free your soul from weakness."
"Ukrainian","Fire starts with sparks."
"Ukrainian","A crow will never be a falcon."
"Ukrainian","A friendly word is better than a heavy cake."
"Ukrainian","A hungry wolf is stronger than a satisfied dog."
"Ukrainian","A woman is not a harmonica that you put aside when you have used it."
"Ukrainian","A woman's beauty cannot warm a winter's night."
"Ukrainian","Black souls wear white shirts."
"Ukrainian","Borrowed bread lies heavy on the stomach."
"Ukrainian","Deficiencies come by the kilo and go by the gram."
"Ukrainian","Drink a glass of wine after your soup and you will be stealing a ruble from the doctor."
"Ukrainian","Drunkards know no danger."
"Ukrainian","Fire begins with sparks."
"Ukrainian","Flies will not land on a boiling pot."
"Ukrainian","Fools love not the wise, drunkards love not the sober."
"Ukrainian","Keep fire away from straw."
"Ukrainian","Love will find a way. Indifference will find an excuse."
"Ukrainian","No cook ever died of starvation."
"Ukrainian","Love well whip well."
"Ukrainian","Every disadvantage has its advantage."
"Ukrainian","Love tells us many things that are not so."
"Ukrainian","God is looking for those who come to Him."
"Ukrainian","If you marry a young woman, make sure your friends stay outside."
"Ukrainian","If you chase two hares at the same time, you will catch neither of them."
"Ukrainian","If the devil is powerless, send him a woman."
"Ukrainian","He who licks knives will soon cut his tongue."
"Ukrainian","He is guilty who is not at home."
"Ukrainian","God sits on high and he sees far."
"Ukrainian","Love thy neighbour, but pull not down thy hedge."
"Ukranian","Love well whip well."
"Ukranian","Love tells us many things that are not so."
"Ukranian","Love thy neighbour, but pull not down thy hedge."
"Ukranian","Love will find a way."
"Ukranian","The church is near, but the way is icy. The tavern is far, but I will walk carefully."
"Ukranian","Love will find a way. Indifference will find an excuse."
"Ukranian","The church is near, but the way is icy, The tavern is far, but I will walk carefully."
"Unknown","The most beautiful fig may contain a worm."
"Unknown","To one who does not know, a small garden is a forest."
"Unknown","Tickle it with a hoe and it will laugh into a harvest."
"Unknown","Though a tree grows so high, the falling leaves return to the root."
"Unknown","The root of all health is in the brain. The trunk of it is in emotion. The branches and leaves are the body. The flower of health blooms when all parts work together."
"Unknown","The rich would have to eat money if the poor did not provide food."
"Unknown","The plum tree, dwindling, contains less of the spring; But the garden is wider, and holds more of the moon."
"Unknown","The nail that sticks out is hammered down. [More about the need for conformity than about tools, although conformity is a tool of society.]"
"Unknown","`Uo `ia i ka manai ho`okahi. Strung like flowers on the same lei needle. Married."
"Unknown","The mills of God grind slowly but they grind finely."
"Unknown","The hardest work is to go idle."
"Unknown","The garden must be prepared in the soul first or else it will not flourish."
"Unknown","The better the fruit, the more wasps to eat it."
"Unknown","The nut doesn't reveal the tree it contains."
"Unknown","When the bee comes to your house, let her have beer; you may want to visit the bee's house some day."
"Unknown","Tis better to buy a small bouquet And give to your friend this very day, Than a bushel of roses white and red To lay on his coffin after he's dead."
"Uruguayan","Better to lose a minute in your life than your life in a minute."
"Uruguayan","Better to marry a neighbor than a stranger."
"Uruguayan","He who doesn't die on the battlefield slips in the bathtub."
"Uruguayan","Clear accounts make for long friendships."
"Uruguayan","You don't study to be a fool."
"Uruguayan","Time will give you the best disguise."
"Uruguayan","The favor of a man in power is like a summer shower."
"Uruguayan","That which is done at night appears in the day."
"Uruguayan","Find as much love as was given by your father and mother many times."
"Uruguayan","Don't take every ill to the doctor, or every quarrel to the lawyer, or every thirst to the tavern."
"Uruguayan","Better to marry a neighbor than a stranger."
"Uruguayan","Better to lose a minute in your life than your life in a minute."
"Uruguayan","A stolen object brings no joy to one's heart."
"Uruguayan","Gifts break rocks and melt hearts."
"US Marine","Excuses are like assholes, everyone has one, and they all stink."
"Ute","Don't walk behind me; i may not lead. don't walk in front of me; i may not follow. walk beside me that we may be as one."
"Ute","If i am in harmony with my family, that's success."
"Vai","An elephant grows and becomes an adult, even if people do not like it."
"Vai","The goat is not big in a cow town."
"Vai","The moon lightens well but leaves certain areas in the dark."
"Venezuelan","There is nothing hidden between Heaven and Earth."
"Venezuelan","There is nothing like leather."
"Venezuelan","There is nothing lost by civility."
"Venezuelan","There is nothing hidden between Heaven and Earth"
"Venezuelan","One sword keeps another in its scabbard."
"Venezuelan","Treat the lesser as you would have the greater treat you."
"Venezuelan","There is nothing lost by civility."
"Venezuelan","Blood is inherited and virtue is acquired."
"Venezuelan","There is nothing like leather."
"Venezuelan","When the hare leaps, there are no lame greyhounds."
"Venezuelan","There is nothing hidden between Heaven and Earth."
"Venezuelan","The man to whom god gives no children, the devil gives nieces and nephews."
"Venezuelan","Proverbs in conversation are torches in darkness."
"Venezuelan","Join with good men and you will be one of them."
"Venezuelan","He who would be a redeemer ends up crucified."
"Venezuelan","He who doesn't look ahead gets left behind."
"Venezuelan","He who abandons his family, god forsakes him."
"Venezuelan","For the ugly vice of begging, there's the virtue of not giving."
"Venezuelan","Blood is inherited; character is earned."
"Venezuelan","A mother has little love for a son who did not give her pain."
"Venezuelan","A good friend will fit you like ring to finger."
"Venezuelan","For a new sin, a new penance."
"Vermont","Don't talk unless you can improve the silence."
"Vermont","It isn't the whistle that pulls the train."
"Vermont","You can shear a sheep many times but you can skin him only once."
"Vietnamese","Never forget benefits done you, regardless how small."
"Vietnamese","When the tree falls, any child can climb it."
"Vietnamese","When eating a fruit, think of the person who planted the tree."
"Vietnamese","Venture all; see what fate brings."
"Vietnamese","The rich worry over their money, the poor over their bread."
"Vietnamese","One often gets what one disdains."
"Vietnamese","All cats are gray in the dark."
"Vietnamese","People live with their own idiosyncrasies and die of their own illnesses."
"Vietnamese","Strong wood is worth more than painted wood."
"Vietnamese","One often gets what one disdains."
"Vietnamese","One scabby sheep is enough to spoil the whole flock."
"Vietnamese","People live with their own idiosyncrasies and die of their own illnesses."
"Vietnamese","People say that time goes by; time says that the people go by."
"Vietnamese","Receive a plum, return a peach."
"Vietnamese","The buffalo that arrives late will have to drink muddy water and eat dry grass."
"Vietnamese","So many men, so many minds."
"Vietnamese","No sweet without sweat."
"Vietnamese","Sun is for cucumbers, rain for rice."
"Vietnamese","Tell me where it itches if you want me to scratch you."
"Vietnamese","The army is the poison and the people are the water in which the poison is mixed."
"Vietnamese","The bird that escapes from its cage never wants to come back."
"Vietnamese","The boat follows the helm, the woman follows her husband."
"Vietnamese","Scratch my back; I'll scratch yours."
"Vietnamese","Never forget benefits done you, regardless how small."
"Vietnamese","Make the amount of sauce you use correspond to the amount of rice you have."
"Vietnamese","Man is the flower of the earth."
"Vietnamese","Many a good father has but a bad son."
"Vietnamese","Many hands make light work."
"Vietnamese","Men made money; money never made men."
"Vietnamese","Money can even corrupt the virtuous."
"Vietnamese","One good turn deserves another."
"Vietnamese","Necessity knows no laws."
"Vietnamese","Old foxes want no tutor."
"Vietnamese","Nice words are free, so choose ones that please another's ears."
"Vietnamese","No man is a hero to his valet."
"Vietnamese","No matter how sharp it is, a knife will never cut it's own handle."
"Vietnamese","No matter how sharp it is, a knife will never cut it's own handle."
"Vietnamese","No rain without clouds."
"Vietnamese","The chained buffalo doesn't enjoy grazing."
"Vietnamese","Money makes the mare go."
"Vietnamese","Where life is exhausted, death comes."
"Vietnamese","What is good for the buffalo is good for the cow."
"Vietnamese","When eating the fruit, think of the person who planted the tree."
"Vietnamese","When husband and wife live in harmony, they can dry up the ocean without a bucket."
"Vietnamese","When the cat's away the mouse sits on its throne."
"Vietnamese","When the father has eaten too much salt in his lifetime, then his son thereafter will have a great thirst."
"Vietnamese","The buffalo that arrive late will have to drink muddy water and eat dried grass."
"Vietnamese","When the tree falls, any child can climb it."
"Vietnamese","To fish in troubled waters."
"Vietnamese","Who breaks, pays."
"Vietnamese","Who keeps company with the wolf will learn to howl."
"Vietnamese","Women are like raindrops: some fall on palaces, others on ricefields."
"Vietnamese","You cannot breathe through another man's nose."
"Vietnamese","Young bamboo trees are easy to bend."
"Vietnamese","A good name is better than good habits."
"Vietnamese","When the pain has passed one forgets the medicine."
"Vietnamese","The rich worry over their money, the poor over their bread."
"Vietnamese","The crane was killed by the fishhook."
"Vietnamese","The dog will always attack the one with torn trousers."
"Vietnamese","The fat buffalo will attract the lean buffalo."
"Vietnamese","The higher you climb, the heavier you fall."
"Vietnamese","The human tongue is more poisonous than a bee's sting."
"Vietnamese","The leopard cannot change its spots."
"Vietnamese","Victory makes you into an emperor, defeat into a rebel."
"Vietnamese","The rich become deaf and the mighty blind."
"Vietnamese","Venture all; see what fate brings."
"Vietnamese","There is no ivory in the mouth of a dog."
"Vietnamese","There is one fish in the pond, and ten anglers on the bank."
"Vietnamese","Think today and speak tomorrow."
"Vietnamese","Tit for tat."
"Vietnamese","To carry coals to Newcastle."
"Vietnamese","Literally: Go out for a day, get a full basket of knowledge."
"Vietnamese","The mouth prays to Buddha, but the heart is full of evil."
"Vietnamese","Brothers and sisters are as close as hands and feet."
"Vietnamese","Enter alcohol, exit words."
"Vietnamese","Beauty is but skin-deep."
"Vietnamese","Beggars can't be choosers."
"Vietnamese","Better a lean peace than a fat victory."
"Vietnamese","Better a wise man's servant than an idiot's master."
"Vietnamese","An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth."
"Vietnamese","Between two stools, you fall to the ground."
"Vietnamese","An egg today is better than a chicken tomorrow."
"Vietnamese","Likes draws to like."
"Vietnamese","Comfort is better than pride."
"Vietnamese","Don't set the attic on fire just because you didn't catch any mice."
"Vietnamese","Don't trouble trouble until trouble troubles you."
"Vietnamese","Eating slowly is good for the stomach; plowing deeply is good for the fields."
"Vietnamese","Elephants are killed for their ivory, birds for their feathers."
"Vietnamese","Better to die than to live on with a bad reputation."
"Vietnamese","A frog living at the bottom of the well thinks that the sky is as small as a cooking pot lid."
"Vietnamese","A clean hand wants no washing."
"Vietnamese","A day in prison is longer than a thousand years at large."
"Vietnamese","A day of travelling will bring a basketful of learning."
"Vietnamese","A fair face may hide a foul heart."
"Vietnamese","A fool may sometimes give a wise man counsel."
"Vietnamese","As the call, so the echo."
"Vietnamese","A friend when in need is a faithful friend."
"Vietnamese","Do not halloo till you are out of the wood."
"Vietnamese","A good beginning is half the battle."
"Vietnamese","Adversity brings wisdom."
"Vietnamese","A mouse in time may bite in two a cable."
"Vietnamese","A bad compromise is better than a good lawsuit."
"Vietnamese","After the storm the sun comes out."
"Vietnamese","All cats are gray in the dark."
"Vietnamese","A friend in need is a friend indeed."
"Vietnamese","It's best to wash one's soiled linen at home."
"Vietnamese","Hungry bellies have no ears."
"Vietnamese","If you go out a lot at night, you will probably meet ghosts."
"Vietnamese","If you hold high office, the whole village will share your fame."
"Vietnamese","Even if a mountain is high, there is always a way to reach the top -- and although the way might be full of danger, there is always a way for someone to get through it."
"Vietnamese","If you want to gather a lot of knowledge, act as if you are ignorant."
"Vietnamese","Hunger finds no fault with cookery."
"Vietnamese","It is no disgrace to move out of the way of the elephant."
"Vietnamese","If you want to eat pickled herring, think about the thirst you will have."
"Vietnamese","It's better to have lots of children than to have lots of material goods."
"Vietnamese","It's better to sleep on the floor in an incense shop than in a bed in a fishmarket."
"Vietnamese","Jack of all trades is master of none."
"Vietnamese","Lies have short legs."
"Vietnamese","Life is a temporary stop, death is the journey home."
"Vietnamese","Like cures like."
"Vietnamese","Catch the bear before you sell his skin."
"Vietnamese","Familiarity breeds contempt."
"Vietnamese","If you want to travel fast use the old roads."
"Vietnamese","Everybody's business is nobody's business."
"Vietnamese","Hunger brings the wolf to the fold."
"Vietnamese","Fine feathers make fine birds."
"Vietnamese","Fine words butter no parsnips."
"Vietnamese","Fire is a good servant but a bad master."
"Vietnamese","Fortune favours the brave."
"Vietnamese","Giving just a crumb to the hungry is worth more than giving lunch to the satisfied."
"Vietnamese","Happy hours are very short."
"Vietnamese","Haste makes waste."
"Vietnamese","He laughs best who laughs last."
"Vietnamese","He that has a tongue in his head may find his way anywhere."
"Vietnamese","He wanted to cure a healthy pig and ended up with a sick one."
"Vietnamese","Give him an inch and he will take a yard."
"Vietnamese","Every dog is a lion at home."
"Viking","Growl not at guests, nor drive them from the gate but show thyself gentle to the poor."
"Virgin Islander","Come see me and ""come live with me"" are two different things."
"Virgin Islander","You can lock your door from a thief, but not from a damned liar."
"Virgin Islander","Willing is a good man, but Able is a better one."
"Virgin Islander","Time is longer than a rope."
"Virgin Islander","The bucket goes down the well every day -- some day it won't come up again."
"Virgin Islander","No matter how fast moonlight runs, daylight catches up."
"Virgin Islander","Never pick up what you didn't put down."
"Virgin Islander","If you think your bundle of dirty clothes is too heavy, try picking up your neighbor's."
"Virgin Islander","A new broom sweeps clean, but an old broom knows the corners."
"Virgin Islander","An empty sack can't stand up; a full sack cannot bend."
"Vulcan","Challenge your preconceptions, or they will challenge you."
"Vulcan","Live long and prosper."
"Vulcan","Live long and prosper."
"Vulcan","Challenge your preconceptions, or they will challenge you."
"Wadchagga","The tail of the cow watches to the right and left."
"Wadchagga","When the lion gets old even flies attack him."
"Wall Street","Buy on the rumor; sell on the news."
"Walloon","The tail is always the most difficult part to skin."
"Walloon","You only know saints by their miracles."
"Walloon","White flowers are not to be found in a coal sack."
"Walloon","Three hairs are quickly combed."
"Walloon","The more the billy goat stinks, the more the nanny goat loves him."
"Walloon","The chemist doesn't smell his own medicine."
"Walloon","The best ointment comes in small boxes."
"Walloon","In dark weather the devil is in the air."
"Walloon","He started with nothing and still he has just his begging bag."
"Walloon","Fat geese don't fly far."
"Walloon","Don't make use of another's mouth unless it has been leant to you."
"Walloon","Do what you want, but make sure you are first."
"Walloon","Better warn than be warned."
"Walloon","Beauty is not so much what you see as what you dream."
"Walloon","He who keeps his mouth shut, dies without confession."
"Walloon","When two poor men help each other, God laughs."
"Walloon","A tree falls the way it leans."
"Welsh","Of a compliment only a third is meant."
"Welsh","A warm January; a cold May."
"Welsh","He understands badly who listens badly."
"Welsh","Old age will not come alone."
"Welsh","Old age is a hundred disorders."
"Welsh","Of a compliment only a third is meant."
"Welsh","Nothing is so clean as a fish."
"Welsh","Man's mind is a watch that needs winding daily."
"Welsh","If you would get ahead, be a bridge."
"Welsh","Reason is the wise man's guide, example the fool's."
"Welsh","If every fool wore a crown, we should all be kings."
"Welsh","Adversity and loss make a man wise."
"Welsh","Be honorable yourself if you wish to associate with honorable people."
"Welsh","Adversity comes with instruction in his hand."
"Welsh","Adversity brings knowledge, and knowledge wisdom."
"Welsh","A willful man must have his way."
"Welsh","A watched pot never boils."
"Welsh","A wife's advice is not worth much, but woe to the husband who refuses to take it."
"Welsh","A watched clock never tells the time."
"Welsh","If every man would sweep his own door-step the city would soon be clean."
"Welsh","The best candle is understanding."
"Welsh","The advice of the aged will not mislead you."
"Welsh","Three remedies of the physicians of Myddfal: water, honey, and labour."
"Welsh","A willful fault has no excuse, and deserves no pardon."
"Welsh","Three things it is best to avoid: a strange dog, a flood, and a man who thinks he is wise."
"Welsh","Without perseverance talent is a barren bed."
"Welsh","Your hand is never the worse for doing its own work."
"Welsh","Three things it is best to avoid: a strange dog, a flood, and a man who thinks he is wise."
"Welsh","Speak well of your friend; of your enemy say nothing."
"Welsh","One needs a long spoon to sup with the devil."
"Welsh","Patience is the mother of all wisdom."
"Welsh","People aren't good unless others are made better by them."
"Welsh","Tapping persistently breaks the stone."
"Welsh","Perfect love sometimes does not come until the first grandchild."
"Welsh","Playing with fire will eventually turn bitter."
"Welsh","Reason is the wise man's guide, example the fool's."
"Welsh","Scatter with one hand, gather with two."
"Welsh","Starting the work is two thirds of it."
"Welsh","Old proverbs are the children of truth."
"Welsh","Money is the key that opens all locks."
"Welsh","Repay evil with good, and hell will not claim you."
"Welsh","No good will come of over sleeping."
"Welsh","Man learns from the cradle to the grave."
"Welsh","Man's mind is a watch that needs winding daily."
"Welsh","Memory slips, letters remain."
"Welsh","Milk for a child, meat for a man, beer for the old."
"Welsh","The strength of a nation is its knowledge."
"Welsh","Never trust overmuch to a new friend or an old enemy."
"Welsh","The achievement of all work is practice."
"Welsh","Old feel the blows suffered when young."
"Welsh","Nothing is so clean as a fish."
"Welsh","Of a compliment only a third is meant."
"Welsh","Of all weights, old age is the heaviest."
"Welsh","Old age comes not on its own."
"Welsh","Old age is a hundred disorders."
"Welsh","Old age will not come alone."
"Welsh","More the hurry, more the obstacles."
"Welsh","Those not ruled by the rudder will be ruled by the rocks."
"Welsh","It is good to look homewards."
"Welsh","Loving a woman who scorns you is like licking honey from a thorn."
"Welsh","Your hand is never the worse for doing its own work."
"Welsh","Your hand is never rhe worse for doing irts own work."
"Welsh","You must crawl before walking."
"Welsh","Without perseverance talent is a barren bed."
"Welsh","Whilst kicking and biting, love develops."
"Welsh","When the steersmen are many the ship will sink."
"Welsh","Turning the water to his own mill."
"Welsh","To sing before breakfast is to weep before supper."
"Welsh","Three things it is best to avoid: a strange dog, a flood, and a man who thinks he is wise."
"Welsh","Three things give us hardy strength: sleeping on hairy mattresses, breathing cold air, and eating dry food."
"Welsh","The older the man, the weaker his mind."
"Welsh","Three comforts of old age: fire, tea and tobacco."
"Welsh","The advice of the aged will not mislead you."
"Welsh","The young laugh when the old fall."
"Welsh","The world is wide to everyone."
"Welsh","The wiser the man, the fewer his words."
"Welsh","The strength of the old is their ready counsel."
"Welsh","The seed of all evil is laziness."
"Welsh","The old know and the young suspect.""."
"Welsh","The foolish has a wagging tongue."
"Welsh","The coldness of a friend and the coldness of linen -- they never lasted long."
"Welsh","The child will grow, his clothes will not."
"Welsh","The best shortage is a shortage of words."
"Welsh","The best knowledge is to know yourself."
"Welsh","The best candle is understanding."
"Welsh","Three remedies of the physicians of Myddfal: water, honey, and labour."
"Welsh","A wife's advice is not worth much, but woe to the husband who refuses to take it."
"Welsh","Be honorable yourself if you wish to associate with honorable people."
"Welsh","Be a friend to yourself, and others will."
"Welsh","Bad news goes about in clogs, Good news in stockinged feet."
"Welsh","At the end of the song comes payment."
"Welsh","Anger is the mother of treachery."
"Welsh","An Angel on the road, a Devil at the fireplace."
"Welsh","All waiting is long."
"Welsh","Adversity comes with instruction in his hand."
"Welsh","Adversity and loss make a man wise."
"Welsh","Let not your tongue cut your throat."
"Welsh","A wise wolf hides his fangs."
"Welsh","Better a friend at court than gold on the finger."
"Welsh","A willful fault has no excuse, and deserves no pardon."
"Welsh","Adversity brings knowledge, and knowledge wisdom."
"Welsh","A wicked man's gift hath a touch of his master."
"Welsh","A watched pot never boils."
"Welsh","A watched clock never tells the time."
"Welsh","A warm January; a cold May."
"Welsh","A sword's honour is its idleness."
"Welsh","A spoon does not know the taste of soup, nor a learned fool the taste of wisdom."
"Welsh","A slattern woman hold open the door to hell."
"Welsh","A ship and a woman are ever repairing."
"Welsh","A nation without a language is a nation without a heart."
"Welsh","A man without prudence is a ship without an anchor."
"Welsh","A lame cat is better than a swift horse when rats infest the palace."
"Welsh","A great sin can enter by a small door."
"Welsh","A willful man must have his way."
"Welsh","If you would be praised, die."
"Welsh","Let him who reflects, remember."
"Welsh","A boy is easier cheated than an old lady."
"Welsh","A work ill done must be twice done."
"Welsh","If you would get ahead, be a bridge."
"Welsh","Better a good shilling than a dud sovereign."
"Welsh","If every man would sweep his own door-step the city would soon be clean."
"Welsh","If every fool wore a crown, we should all be kings."
"Welsh","I was wise once, when I was born I cried."
"Welsh","Home is home, however poor it may be."
"Welsh","He who steals an egg will steal more."
"Welsh","He who has no faults is not born."
"Welsh","He who deceives, shall be deceived."
"Welsh","He understands badly who listens badly."
"Welsh","He that would be a leader must be a bridge."
"Welsh","Birds of a color fly to the same place."
"Welsh","In every pardon there is love."
"Welsh","Have a horse of your own and then you may borrow another's."
"Welsh","Better educated than wealthy."
"Welsh","Better the rod that bends than one that breaks."
"Welsh","Birds of the same colour fly to the same place."
"Welsh","Breaking her hip is the old woman's fault."
"Welsh","Death considers not the fairest forehead."
"Welsh","Do good and then do it again."
"Welsh","Everything that is yellow is not gold."
"Welsh","Every bird relishes his own voice."
"Welsh","Conscience is the nest where all good is hatched."
"Welsh","Better my own cottage, than the palace of another."
"Welsh","Every flock has its black sheep."
"West African","Everybody loves a fool, but nobody wants him for a son."
"West African","Everybody loves a lord."
"West African","A tattler is war than a thief."
"West African","A talkative bird will not build a nest."
"West African","A hare is like an ass in the length of its ears, yet it is not its son."
"West African","Fear is no obstacle to death."
"West African","When the mouth stumbles, it is worse than the foot."
"West African","Perhaps you do not understand me because you do not love me."
"West African","Silence is also speech."
"West African","Sorrow doesn't kill -- reckless joy does."
"West African","What you cannot see during the day, you will not see at night."
"West African","Not to know is bad; not to wish to know is worse."
"West African","When the music changes, so does the dance."
"West African","At the bottom of patience one finds heaven."
"West African","The teeth that laugh are also those that bite."
"West African","Fear is no obstacle to death."
"West African","Everybody loves a lord."
"West African","Everybody loves a fool, but nobody wants him for a son."
"West African","By crawling, a child learns to stand."
"West African","A tattler is war than a thief."
"West African","A talkative bird will not build a nest."
"West African","A hare is like an ass in the length of its ears, yet it is not its son."
"West African","Earth is but a marketplace; heaven is home."
"West Indian","The jay bird don't rob his own nest."
"West Indian","The jay bird don't rob his own nest."
"West Indies","The jay bird don't rob his own nest."
"Western African","Loving someone that does not love you is like loving the rain that falls in the forest."
"Western European","When the cat's away, the mice will play."
"Western European","The cat--moon eats the gray mice of night."
"Western Kenyan","Blind belief is dangerous."
"Wintu","When we Indians kill meat, we eat it all up. When we dig roots, we make little holes. When we build houses, we make little holes. When we burn grass for grasshoppers, we don't ruin things. We shake down acorns and pine nuts. We don't chop down the trees. We only use dead wood."
"Wolof","Allah does not destroy the men whom one hates."
"Wolof","The child looks everywhere and often sees nought, the old man, sitting on the ground, sees everything."
"Wolof","The house-roof fights with the rain, but he who is sheltered ignores it."
"Wolof","The partridge loves peas, but not those that go into the pot with it."
"Wolof","Those who get on the same pirogue, have the same aspirations."
"Wolof","To love the king is not bad, but a king who loves you is better."
"Xhosa","They are people of experience who do not sleep at a strange place."
"Xhosa","There is no wormwood that comes into flower and does not wither."
"Xhosa","There is no beast that does not roar in its den."
"Xhosa","The wonderful and the impossible have come into collision."
"Xhosa","The walls have come into collision."
"Xhosa","The sun never sets without fresh news."
"Xhosa","They have slaughtered at Kukwane where much meat is obtainable."
"Xhosa","The land is dead."
"Xhosa","We shall hear, we are on the side towards which the wind blows."
"Xhosa","The foot has no nose."
"Xhosa","The crab has stuck fast between the stones at the entrance of its hole."
"Xhosa","The people who rescue and kill."
"Xhosa","They prevent us from getting red clay from the pit, and they do not use it."
"Xhosa","The coming of Nkele."
"Xhosa","To skin a mouse."
"Xhosa","The mist and the sun are together."
"Xhosa","You are creeping on your knees to the fireplace."
"Xhosa","You are lighting a fire in the wind."
"Xhosa","You disturb monkeys on their way to drink."
"Xhosa","You drink out of the old cup."
"Xhosa","You have cast away your own for that which you are not sure of."
"Xhosa","You have exposed yourself."
"Xhosa","You will find out what Hili of the Amambalu experienced."
"Xhosa","You will prefer roasted meat."
"Xhosa","You will shed tears with one eye like a monkey."
"Xhosa","Throats are all alike in swallowing"
"Xhosa","Bakuba is far away, no person ever reached it."
"Xhosa","A brand burns him who stirs it up."
"Xhosa","A dog of the wind."
"Xhosa","The shield turned the wrong way."
"Xhosa","A spy for both."
"Xhosa","The baldness of a head begins at the temples."
"Xhosa","Guluwe's two of yesterday."
"Xhosa","He has drunk the juice of the flower of the wild aloe."
"Xhosa","He has fastened a dog to a shrub."
"Xhosa","He has gone in pursuit of the birds of the sea."
"Xhosa","He is a buck of an endless forest."
"Xhosa","He is ripe inside, like a water-melon."
"Xhosa","I rejoice that Kolomba's mother is dead."
"Xhosa","I, the adhesive grass, will stick fast to you."
"Xhosa","One does not become great by claiming greatness."
"Xhosa","A person who will not take advice gets knowledge when trouble overtakes him."
"Xhosa","If we blink the eyes in order not to see a wicked person, how shall we be able to see a good person?"
"Xhosa","One fly does not provide for another."
"Xhosa","No partridge scratches the ground in search of food for another."
"Xhosa","Misfortune of soup made of shanks and feet."
"Xhosa","Like the marriage feast of Mapassa."
"Xhosa","It has stuck fast by one of the front legs."
"Xhosa","It is the foot of a baboon."
"Xhosa","It is not every one who is a son of Gaika."
"Xhosa","It is a cob stripped of maize in an ashpit."
"Xhosa","It is the seed of the umya."
"Xhosa","One who eats the remains of a meal without first obtaining permission."
"Xhosa","It dies and rises like the moon."
"Yemen","The master of the people is their servant."
"Yemeni","Out of sight, out of mind."
"Yemeni","My fist is in his mouth, his fist is in my eye."
"Yemeni","My daughter, as long as you keep quiet, much money will paid for your marriage."
"Yemeni","Look to your near neighbour rather than to your distant brother."
"Yemeni","If you have honey, don't lick the pot clean."
"Yemeni","If you give people nuts, you'll get shells thrown at you."
"Yemeni","Pity the stranger, even if he is rich."
"Yemeni","You play with a snake and call it a worm."
"Yemeni","It is better to wear mended clothes than being without clothes or bare."
"Yemeni","Setting the conditions before you make an agreement is better than having an argument in the middle of the work."
"Yemeni","The master of the people is their servant."
"Yemeni","To have a clear tongue is better than having goods which you can't manage well."
"Yemeni","What you sow, so shall you reap."
"Yemeni","Who dies today is safe from tomorrow's sin."
"Yemeni","Work like an ant and you'll eat sugar."
"Yemeni","A monkey in its mother's eye is like a gazelle."
"Yemeni","If the time has passed, there is no point in preparing."
"Yemeni","Whoever does not help himself cannot help others."
"Yemeni","A friend in time of need is a friend indeed."
"Yemeni","A sick person is a prisoner."
"Yemeni","A bird in hand is worth ten in a tree."
"Yemeni","A foreigner should be well-behaved."
"Yemeni","If speech is of silver, silence is golden."
"Yemeni","A hungry dog will eat his own excrement."
"Yemeni","A mule driver is not aware of the stink of his animals."
"Yemeni","A white piastre for a black day."
"Yemeni","He who is patient is always successful."
"Yemeni","A destroyer can defeat thousands of earthenware makers."
"Yemeni","He whose money increases doesn't feel satisfied with his wife."
"Yemeni","Do not sigh, for your enemy will hear and rejoice."
"Yemeni","He who has no job should search for a camel."
"Yemeni","He who eats well is able to face an army."
"Yemeni","From a pound of talk, an ounce of understanding."
"Yemeni","Every sickness begins in the stomach."
"Yemeni","Having grey hair because of old age is not a shame."
"Yiddish","The truly rich are those who enjoy what they have."
"Yiddish","Truth never dies, but lives a wretched life."
"Yiddish","When a thief kisses you, count your teeth."
"Yiddish","What you save is, later, like something found."
"Yiddish","Weeping makes the heart grow lighter."
"Yiddish","When fortune calls, offer her a chair."
"Yiddish","We are all schlemiels."
"Yiddish","When luck joins in the game, cleverness scores double."
"Yiddish","Truth is the safest lie."
"Yiddish","Trouble is to man what rust is to iron."
"Yiddish","Tomorrow your horse may be lame."
"Yiddish","To every answer you can find a new question."
"Yiddish","When one must, one can."
"Yiddish","The wheel turns round."
"Yiddish","You can't measure the whole world with your own yardstick."
"Yiddish","The soldiers fight, and the kings are heroes."
"Yiddish","The schlemiel lands on his back and bruises his nose."
"Yiddish","Time and words can't be recalled, even if it was only yesterday."
"Yiddish","Your health comes first; you can always hang yourself later."
"Yiddish","If a man is destined to drown, he will drown even in a spoonful of water."
"Yiddish","He who would have others pity him must pity others."
"Yiddish","A snake deserves no pity."
"Yiddish","Worries go better with soup than without."
"Yiddish","Truth never dies, but lives a wretched life."
"Yiddish","The rich man who is stingy is the worst pauper."
"Yiddish","Prayers go up and blessings come down."
"Yiddish","You can throw a cat whoever you want, it always falls on its feet."
"Yiddish","Your pot broken seems better than my whole one."
"Yiddish","When the light is crooked, the shadow is crooked."
"Yiddish","You can't chew with somebody else's teeth."
"Yiddish","You buy yourself an enemy when you lend a man money."
"Yiddish","Worries go down better with soup."
"Yiddish","Worries go better with soup than without."
"Yiddish","Words show the wit of a man, but actions his meaning."
"Yiddish","Words should be weighed, not counted."
"Yiddish","With time, even a bear can learn to dance."
"Yiddish","Charm is more than beauty."
"Yiddish","Flattery makes friends and truth makes enemies."
"Yiddish","Golden dreams make men wake hungry."
"Yiddish","Golden dishes will never turn black."
"Yiddish","Gold's father is dirt, yet it regards itself as noble."
"Yiddish","God made man because he loves stories."
"Yiddish","God created a world full of little worlds."
"Yiddish","Fleas are not lobsters."
"Yiddish","Charity and pride have different aims, yet both feed the poor."
"Yiddish","Flattery sits in the parlour when plain dealing is kicked out of doors."
"Yiddish","He that can't endure the bad, will not live to see the good."
"Yiddish","Everyone is kneaded out of the same dough but not baked in the same oven."
"Yiddish","Every seller praises his wares."
"Yiddish","Don't throw away the old bucket until you know whether the new one holds water."
"Yiddish","Dear God: You do such wonderful things for complete strangers; why not for me?"
"Yiddish","Charity excuseth not cheating."
"Yiddish","The nearer to the synagogue, the farther from God."
"Yiddish","Flattery will get you nowhere."
"Yiddish","If all pulled in one direction, the world would keel over."
"Yiddish","If you ever need a helping hand you'll find one at the end of your arm."
"Yiddish","Don't throw a stone into a well from which you have drunk."
"Yiddish","If we did not flatter ourselves, nobody else could."
"Yiddish","If we all pulled in one direction, the world would keel over."
"Yiddish","If things are not as you wish, wish them as they are."
"Yiddish","If Saint Paul's day be fair and clear, it will betide a happy year."
"Yiddish","Had you gotten up early, you wouldn't have needed to stay up late."
"Yiddish","If each one sweeps before his own door, the whole street is clean."
"Yiddish","He falsifies who renders a verse just as it looks."
"Yiddish","If a man is destined to drown, he will drown even in a spoonful of water."
"Yiddish","If a link is broken, the whole chain breaks."
"Yiddish","Hell shared with a sage is better than paradise with a fool."
"Yiddish","He that cannot pay, let him pray."
"Yiddish","He that cannot obey cannot command."
"Yiddish","He that cannot ask cannot live."
"Yiddish","Candlemas day, put beans in the clay; put candles and candlesticks away."
"Yiddish","If rich people could hire other people to die for them, the poor could make a wonderful living."
"Yiddish","A fool shows his annoyance at once, but a prudent man overlooks an insult."
"Yiddish","A man is not honest simply because he never had a chance to steal."
"Yiddish","A man comes from the dust and in the dust he will end--and in the meantime it is good to drink a sip of vodka."
"Yiddish","A man cannot spin and reel at the same time."
"Yiddish","A man cannot jump over his own shadow."
"Yiddish","A joke driven too far brings home hate."
"Yiddish","A half truth is a whole lie."
"Yiddish","Charity covers a multitude of sins."
"Yiddish","A fool who can keep silent is counted among the wise."
"Yiddish","A penny is a lot of money--if you haven't got a penny."
"Yiddish","A fool says what he knows, and a wise man knows what he says."
"Yiddish","A fool is his own informer."
"Yiddish","A dog without teeth will also attack a bone."
"Yiddish","A chip on the shoulder indicates wood higher up."
"Yiddish","A chip off the old block."
"Yiddish","A child's tear rends the heavens."
"Yiddish","A golden key will open every lock."
"Yiddish","A table is not blessed if it has fed no scholars."
"Yiddish","Cancer--schmancer!--as long as you're healthy."
"Yiddish","Ca' me, ca' thee."
"Yiddish","Bygone troubles are good to tell."
"Yiddish","Beware of still water, a still dog, and a still enemy."
"Yiddish","Better ask ten times than go astray once."
"Yiddish","All signs are misleading."
"Yiddish","A man is not old until his regrets take the place of his dreams."
"Yiddish","A wise man hears one word and understands two."
"Yiddish","A man should live if only to satisfy his curiosity."
"Yiddish","A snake deserves no pity."
"Yiddish","A rich mouthful, a heavy groan."
"Yiddish","A rich man's foolish sayings pass for wise ones."
"Yiddish","A rich man who is stingy is the worst pauper."
"Yiddish","A penny saved is a penny earned."
"Yiddish","A penny is sometimes better spent than spared."
"Yiddish","If you want your dreams to come true, don't sleep."
"Yiddish","After nine months the secret comes out."
"Yiddish","Provide for the worst; the best can take care of itself."
"Yiddish","Interest on debts grow without rain."
"Yiddish","Love tastes sweet, but only with bread."
"Yiddish","Make new friends, but don't forget the old ones."
"Yiddish","Make no more haste than good speed."
"Yiddish","Make sure to send a lazy man for the Angel of Death."
"Yiddish","Many complain of their looks, but none of their brains."
"Yiddish","Measure the corn of others with your own bushel."
"Yiddish","Money buys everything but good sense."
"Yiddish","Money doesn't grow on trees."
"Yiddish","Not everyone who sits in the seat of honor is master."
"Yiddish","One good deed has many claimants."
"Yiddish","One good forewit is worth two afterwits."
"Yiddish","Parents can give everything but common sense."
"Yiddish","Protest long enough that you are right, and you will be wrong."
"Yiddish","Silence is also speech."
"Yiddish","The glaciers didn't freeze overnight."
"Yiddish","The girl who can't dance says the band can't play."
"Yiddish","The entire world rests on the tip of the tongue."
"Yiddish","The complete fool is half prophet."
"Yiddish","Talking comes by nature, silence by wisdom."
"Yiddish","Prayers go up and blessings come down."
"Yiddish","Sleep faster, we need the pillows."
"Yiddish","Seek advice but use your own common sense."
"Yiddish","Show her the rudder, but don't steer her boat."
"Yiddish","Show a dog a finger, and he wants the whole hand."
"Yiddish","Send a fool to the market and a fool he will return."
"Yiddish","Send a fool to close the shutters and he'll close them all over town."
"Yiddish","Seek and ye shall find."
"Yiddish","Talk too much and you talk about yourself."
"Yiddish","The longer the blind live, the more they see."
"Yiddish","There's no insurance against death and poverty."
"Yiddish","The truth is not always what we want to hear."
"Yiddish","The ugliest life is better than the nicest death."
"Yiddish","The way you prepare the bed, so shall you sleep."
"Yiddish","The wheel turns round."
"Yiddish","The whole world is a dream, and death the interpreter."
"Yiddish","The wise man, even when he holds his tongue, says more than the fool when he speaks."
"Yiddish","Tomorrow your horse may be lame."
"Yiddish","There is nothing new under the sun -- and that's why there remains such a mess."
"Yiddish","The sun shines brighter after a shower."
"Yiddish","There's plenty of time to bemoan bad fortune once it arrives."
"Yiddish","They have a strong love bond; he with himself and she with herself."
"Yiddish","Time and words can't be recalled, even if it was only yesterday."
"Yiddish","To assume is to be deceived."
"Yiddish","To be rich is not everything, but it certainly helps."
"Yiddish","To every answer you can find a new question."
"Yiddish","The luck of an ignoramus is this: He doesn't know that he doesn't know."
"Yiddish","The wolf is not afraid of the dog, but he doesn't like the sound of his barking."
"Yiddish","The pen wounds deeper than an arrow."
"Yiddish","The heart is half a prophet."
"Yiddish","The heart is small and embraces the whole wide world."
"Yiddish","The heart of a man may be compared to a sausage; no one can tell exactly what's inside."
"Yiddish","The heaviest burden is an empty pocket."
"Yiddish","The heaviest thing in the world is an empty pocket."
"Yiddish","The innkeeper loves the drunkard, but not for a son-in-law."
"Yiddish","The less souls, the more joy."
"Yiddish","The truly rich are those who enjoy what they have."
"Yiddish","The nearer to the synagogue, the farther from God."
"Yiddish","The talk of the day is the dream of the night."
"Yiddish","The rabbi drinks the wine and asks the others to be happy."
"Yiddish","The rich man doesn't pay, the debtor does."
"Yiddish","The rich man who is stingy is the worst pauper."
"Yiddish","The schlemiel lands on his back and bruises his nose."
"Yiddish","The scholar knows what she lacks knowledge of."
"Yiddish","The soldiers fight, and the kings are heroes."
"Yiddish","Too humble is half proud."
"Yiddish","The longest road is the one that leads to your pocket."
"Yiddish","When a fool has the cow by the horns, the wise man can milk it."
"Yiddish","What soap is to the body, laughter is to the soul."
"Yiddish","What use is wisdom when folly reigns?"
"Yiddish","What value is a needle without an eye?"
"Yiddish","What will be, will be."
"Yiddish","What you don't see with your eyes, don't invent with your tongue."
"Yiddish","What you save is, later, like something found."
"Yiddish","To fall off a good horse is at least worthwhile."
"Yiddish","When a father gives to his son, they both laugh."
"Yiddish","What can you do with a good cow that gives a lot of milk and then kicks the bucket over?"
"Yiddish","When a miller fights with a chimney sweep, the miller gets black and the chimney sweep gets white."
"Yiddish","When a mother calls her child bastard, you can take her word for it."
"Yiddish","When a poor man eats a chicken, one or the other is sick."
"Yiddish","When a son gives to his father, they both weep."
"Yiddish","When a thief kisses you, count your teeth."
"Yiddish","When both parties are right, it's a bad day for ""right."""
"Yiddish","When brains are needed, brawn won't help."
"Yiddish","What's left over from the thief is spent on the fortune-teller."
"Yiddish","Understanding is something we're sure the other fellow hasn't got."
"Yiddish","Too nice can cost a lot of money."
"Yiddish","Treat me as a rabbi, but watch over me as a thief."
"Yiddish","Treat me like a rabbi; watch me like a thief."
"Yiddish","Trouble is to man what rust is to iron."
"Yiddish","True poverty does not come from God."
"Yiddish","Truth is the safest lie."
"Yiddish","Truth never dies, but lives a wretched life."
"Yiddish","What soap is for the body, tears are for the soul."
"Yiddish","Ugliness is the only guardian angel a woman has."
"Yiddish","What good is honor when you're starving?"
"Yiddish","Walk straight and you will not fall."
"Yiddish","We are all schlemiels."
"Yiddish","We have far greater compassion for another's misfortune than our pleasure in another's good fortune."
"Yiddish","Weeping makes the heart grow lighter."
"Yiddish","What a fool can spoil, ten wise men cannot repair."
"Yiddish","What a man thinks up for himself, his worst enemy couldn't wish for him."
"Yiddish","When Dame Fortune calls, offer her a chair."
"Yiddish","Two burdens: to Moses water, to God the world."
"Yiddish","Love tastes sweet, but only with bread."
"Yiddish","Look down if you would know how high you stand."
"Yiddish","Look for cake, and lose your bread."
"Yiddish","Lose an hour in the morning, chase it all day."
"Yiddish","Love is blind; jealousy sees too much."
"Yiddish","If rich people could hire other people to die for them, the poor could make a wonderful living."
"Yiddish","Love your neighbor, even if he plays the trombone."
"Yiddish","Love me a little but long."
"Yiddish","Make new friends, but don't forget the old ones."
"Yiddish","Lovers and thieves always look for darkness."
"Yiddish","Look down if you want to know how tall you are."
"Yiddish","Lovers do not need much room."
"Yiddish","Love is like butter -- it's good with bread."
"Yiddish","Like soap for the body so are tears for the soul."
"Yiddish","Life is the cheapest bargain - you get it for nothing."
"Yiddish","Life is the biggest bargain -- we get it for nothing."
"Yiddish","Life is just like a dream -- but don't wake me."
"Yiddish","Lend money and acquire an enemy."
"Yiddish","Lend everyone your ears, give a hand to your friends but give your lips only to a woman."
"Yiddish","Make no more haste than good speed."
"Yiddish","Laugh and everyone sees it, cry and no one sees it."
"Yiddish","Men will give away their last shirt to become millionaires."
"Yiddish","It's not so terrible when you lose money. when courage is lost, all is lost."
"Yiddish","It's not as good with money as it is bad without it."
"Yiddish","It's never too late to die or get married."
"Yiddish","It's good to hope, it's the waiting that spoils it."
"Yiddish","It's easier to be a critic than an author."
"Yiddish","Laughter can be heard further than weeping."
"Yiddish","Mothers-in-law are fine so long as they are deaf and blind."
"Yiddish","Nothing tastes more bitter than the truth."
"Yiddish","Nothing is too difficult you only need to know how."
"Yiddish","Nothing is too difficult you only need to know how."
"Yiddish","Nothing falls from heaven."
"Yiddish","Nothing comes easy."
"Yiddish","Not only that the rich man is rich, but he has such good checks too."
"Yiddish","Not everyone who sits in the seat of honor is master."
"Yiddish","Not all nice things are dear, but those that are dear are nice."
"Yiddish","No man suffers from another's sins - he has enough of his own."
"Yiddish","No choice is an option."
"Yiddish","No choice is also a choice."
"Yiddish","No blessing is bestowed on a secret."
"Yiddish","Never try to be more foolish than the jester."
"Yiddish","Measure the corn of others with your own bushel."
"Yiddish","Men would not be richer for being miserly; generosity does not make a man poorer."
"Yiddish","Man makes plans, and God laughs."
"Yiddish","Man strives, and god laughs."
"Yiddish","Many complain of their looks, but none of their brains."
"Yiddish","May God protect you from goyishe hands and yiddishe tongues."
"Yiddish","It's astonishing how important a man becomes when he dies."
"Yiddish","Never approach a goat from the front, a horse from behind, and a fool from both sides."
"Yiddish","If your heart is bitter, sugar in the mouth won't help."
"Yiddish","Necessity can break iron."
"Yiddish","Mix with your neighbors, and you learn what's doing in your own house."
"Yiddish","Money buys everything but good sense."
"Yiddish","Money doesn't grow on trees."
"Yiddish","Money is round, so it rolls away."
"Yiddish","Money will buy you everything but good sense."
"Yiddish","Make sure to send a lazy man for the Angel of Death."
"Yiddish","Men don't build on strange ground."
"Yiddish","If triangles had a God, He'd have three sides."
"Yiddish","In the mirror everybody sees his best friend."
"Yiddish","If you cannot bite, don't show your teeth."
"Yiddish","If you can't go over, you must go under."
"Yiddish","If you can't go over, go under."
"Yiddish","If you can't endure the bad, you'll not live to witness the good."
"Yiddish","If you can't bite, don't show your teeth."
"Yiddish","If you can't bite, better not show your teeth."
"Yiddish","If you are lucky, even your ox will calve."
"Yiddish","If you are bitter at heart, sugar in the mouth will not help you."
"Yiddish","If we did not flatter ourselves, nobody else could."
"Yiddish","If we cannot do what we will, we must will what we can."
"Yiddish","If we cannot do what we want, we must want what we can."
"Yiddish","If you don't want to do something, one excuse is as good as another."
"Yiddish","If two people say he is drunk, the third one should sleep."
"Yiddish","If you eat your bagel, you'll have nothing in your pocket but the hole."
"Yiddish","If things are not as you wish, wish them as they are."
"Yiddish","If there's bitterness in the heart, sugar in the mouth won't make life sweeter."
"Yiddish","If there is bitterness in the heart, sugar in the mouth won't make life sweeter."
"Yiddish","If the rich could hire someone else to die for them, the poor would make a wonderful living."
"Yiddish","If the rich could hire other people to die for them, the poor could make a wonderful living."
"Yiddish","If the pupil is smart, the teacher gets the credit."
"Yiddish","If the father marries the aunt, he's an uncle."
"Yiddish","If the eyes didn't see, the hands wouldn't take."
"Yiddish","If the bride can't dance, she blames the musicians."
"Yiddish","If someone throws stones at you, throw back bread."
"Yiddish","If Saint Paul's day be fair and clear, it will betide a happy year."
"Yiddish","Who is not good for himself is no good for others."
"Yiddish","Once it was the parents who taught their children to talk; now the children teach their parents to keep quiet."
"Yiddish","If we all pulled in one direction, the world would keel over."
"Yiddish","If you want people to think you are wise, agree with them."
"Yiddish","It is heavy to carry, but you cannot throw it away."
"Yiddish","It is far easier to spot faults in another than virtues in oneself."
"Yiddish","It is better to be in hell with a wise man than in heaven with an idiot."
"Yiddish","Interest on debts grows without rain."
"Yiddish","Interest on debts grow without rain."
"Yiddish","In time, even a bear can be taught to dance."
"Yiddish","In life, each of us must sometimes play the fool."
"Yiddish","If your friend becomes your enemy, he will be your enemy for life."
"Yiddish","If you're skilled, your wallet will be filled."
"Yiddish","If you're out to beat a dog, you're sure to find a stick."
"Yiddish","If you're fated to drown, you may die in a teaspoon of water."
"Yiddish","If you want your dreams to come true, don't over sleep."
"Yiddish","If you don't toil, you won't eat."
"Yiddish","If you want to give God a good laugh, tell Him your plans."
"Yiddish","It is not good to be alone, even in Paradise."
"Yiddish","If you tell the truth, you don't have to swear."
"Yiddish","If you stay at home you won't wear out your shoes."
"Yiddish","If you start thinking of death, you are no longer sure of life."
"Yiddish","If you seek a reputation for wisdom, agree with everyone."
"Yiddish","If you put in you can take out."
"Yiddish","If you pray for another, you will be helped yourself."
"Yiddish","If you play with a cat, you must not mind her scratch."
"Yiddish","If you lose your self-respect, you also lose the respect of others."
"Yiddish","If you lie on the ground, you cannot fall."
"Yiddish","If you keep on talking, you will end up saying what you didn't intend to say."
"Yiddish","If you have nothing to lose, you can try everything."
"Yiddish","If you find your friend on the sofa at home with your wife, you had better sell the sofa."
"Yiddish","If you ever need a helping hand, you'll find one at the end of your arm."
"Yiddish","If you want to know what God thinks of money, look at the people he gives it to."
"Yiddish","The glaciers didn't freeze overnight."
"Yiddish","Who talks a lot, talks about himself."
"Yiddish","If praying had helped, he could have hired someone to do it."
"Yiddish","Who dances at the wedding, weeps at the funeral."
"Yiddish","When you sweep the house, you find everything."
"Yiddish","When you look to the heights, hold on to your hat."
"Yiddish","When you have left a country, you have left everyone."
"Yiddish","When the time comes for you to live, there aren't enough years."
"Yiddish","When the ox just stumbles, they all sharpen their knives."
"Yiddish","When the light is crooked, the shadow is crooked."
"Yiddish","When someone claims an inheritance, he sometimes has to pay for the funeral."
"Yiddish","When one must, one can."
"Yiddish","When luck joins in the game, cleverness scores double."
"Yiddish","When your enemy falls, don't rejoice -- but don't pick him up either."
"Yiddish","When fortune calls, offer her a chair."
"Yiddish","Whoever needs milk, bows to the animal."
"Yiddish","The girl who can't dance says the band can't play."
"Yiddish","The gatekeepers are worse than the directors."
"Yiddish","The eyes are the mirror of the soul."
"Yiddish","The entire world rests on the tip of the tongue."
"Yiddish","The door of success is marked ""push"" and ""pull."""
"Yiddish","The doctor has a remedy for everything but poverty."
"Yiddish","The crow flies sky high and lands on a pig."
"Yiddish","The complete fool is half prophet."
"Yiddish","The cold strengthens you more than hunger."
"Yiddish","The clothes hide the blemish."
"Yiddish","The body is a sponge, the soul an abyss."
"Yiddish","The best horse needs a whip, intelligent men need advice, and devout women need a man."
"Yiddish","When God wants to punish an idiot, He teaches them a few words of Hebrew."
"Yiddish","You can wash your body but not your soul."
"Yiddish","All things grow with time, except grief."
"Yiddish","Your neighbor's apples are the sweetest."
"Yiddish","Your health comes first; you can always hang yourself later."
"Yiddish","Your health comes first - you can always hang yourself later."
"Yiddish","You reproach your daughter, but you mean your daughter-in-law."
"Yiddish","You never lose a false coin."
"Yiddish","You find everything when you are spring cleaning."
"Yiddish","You do not fall because you are weak, you fall because you think you are strong."
"Yiddish","You cannot hold your head high with your hand out."
"Yiddish","You can't put ""thank you"" in your pocket."
"Yiddish","You can't measure the whole world with your own yardstick."
"Yiddish","You can't make cheesecakes out of snow."
"Yiddish","Who wins first, loses last."
"Yiddish","You can't chew with somebody else's teeth."
"Yiddish","Whoever looks for easy work goes to bed very tired."
"Yiddish","You can throw a cat whoever you want, it always falls on its feet."
"Yiddish","You can make the dream bigger than the night."
"Yiddish","You buy yourself an enemy when you lend a man money."
"Yiddish","You are ushered in according to your dress; shown out according to your brains."
"Yiddish","Worries go down better with soup."
"Yiddish","Worries go better with soup than without."
"Yiddish","Words show the wit of a man, but actions his meaning."
"Yiddish","Words should be weighed and not counted."
"Yiddish","Women can keep only one secret -- their own."
"Yiddish","With time, even a bear can learn to dance."
"Yiddish","With money in your pocket, you are wise and you are handsome and you sing well, too."
"Yiddish","With a child in the house, all corners all full."
"Yiddish","Tasty is the fish on someone else's dish."
"Yiddish","You can't force anyone to love you or lend you money."
"Yiddish","One who wants to know is better than one who already knows."
"Yiddish","The apple does not fall far from the tree."
"Yiddish","Provide for the worst; the best can take care of itself."
"Yiddish","Protest long enough that you are right, and you will be wrong."
"Yiddish","Pride can live in the dungheap."
"Yiddish","Prayers go up and blessings come down."
"Yiddish","Praise the young and they will blossom."
"Yiddish","Perfection anywhere is very rare."
"Yiddish","Pearls around the neck, stones upon the heart."
"Yiddish","Parents can give their children everything except good luck."
"Yiddish","Parents can give everything but common sense."
"Yiddish","Over the bottle many a friend is found."
"Yiddish","Out of desperation, one finds."
"Yiddish","Rejoice not at your enemy's fall, but don't pick him up, either."
"Yiddish","One who wants to know is better than one who already knows."
"Yiddish","Rich man down and poor man up -- they are still not even."
"Yiddish","One should not send a cat to deliver cream."
"Yiddish","One rotten apple spoils the other."
"Yiddish","One person enjoys a piece of hard cheese, a second a spun out prayer chant, and a third a door to the street."
"Yiddish","One old friend is better than two new ones."
"Yiddish","One is certain only of death."
"Yiddish","One hand washes the other."
"Yiddish","One good forewit is worth two afterwits."
"Yiddish","One good deed has many claimants."
"Yiddish","One God and so many enemies."
"Yiddish","One does not live on joy or die of sorrow."
"Yiddish","One chops the wood, the other does the grunting."
"Yiddish","One chops the wood, and the other shouts ""Oh, my back!"""
"Yiddish","One ass calls the other a pack animal."
"Yiddish","Other people's troubles are bearable."
"Yiddish","Sins hide not in your sleep but in your dreams."
"Yiddish","Once poor, never rich."
"Yiddish","Talking comes by nature, silence by wisdom."
"Yiddish","Talk too much and you talk about yourself."
"Yiddish","Surrounding yourself with dwarfs does not make you a giant."
"Yiddish","Stupid solutions that succeed are still stupid solutions."
"Yiddish","Stubbornness is the greatest ill."
"Yiddish","Stubbornness is the greatest ill."
"Yiddish","Spare us what we can learn to endure."
"Yiddish","Someone who can hold on to his money is worth more than the one who earns it."
"Yiddish","Some people are like new shoes - the cheaper they are, the louder they squeak."
"Yiddish","Some people are electrifying, they light up a room when they leave."
"Yiddish","Small children won't let you sleep, bigger children won't let you live."
"Yiddish","Quiet streams erode the shore."
"Yiddish","Sleep faster -- we need the pillows."
"Yiddish","Ten enemies cannot do a man the harm that he does to himself."
"Yiddish","Silence is the fence around wisdom."
"Yiddish","Silence is also speech."
"Yiddish","Shrouds are made without pockets."
"Yiddish","Show her the rudder, but don't steer her boat."
"Yiddish","Show a dog a finger, and he wants the whole hand."
"Yiddish","She who wants to marry her stepfather regrets it in bed."
"Yiddish","Your pot broken seems better than my whole one."
"Yiddish","Send a fool to the market and a fool he will return."
"Yiddish","Send a fool to close the shutters and he'll close them all over town."
"Yiddish","Seek and ye shall find."
"Yiddish","Seek advice, but use your own common sense."
"Yiddish","Seek advice, but use your own common sense."
"Yiddish","Rob not, repent not."
"Yiddish","Sleep faster, we need the pillows."
"Yiddish","A table is not blessed if it has fed no scholars."
"Yiddish","An unkept promise leads to a bad life."
"Yiddish","An imaginary sickness is worse than a real one."
"Yiddish","An imaginary ailment is worse than a disease."
"Yiddish","An empty barrel makes a lot of noise."
"Yiddish","An animal's end is slaughter."
"Yiddish","All women are heirs to Mother Eve."
"Yiddish","All signs are misleading."
"Yiddish","All of us are crazy in one way or another."
"Yiddish","All dumb people have a lot to say."
"Yiddish","After nine months the secret comes out."
"Yiddish","A wounded soul is difficult to heal."
"Yiddish","A wise man knows what he says, a fool says what he knows."
"Yiddish","Charity and pride have different aims, yet both feed the poor."
"Yiddish","A thief's end is hanging."
"Yiddish","As the fat man gets thinner, the thin one is already dead."
"Yiddish","A snake deserves no pity."
"Yiddish","A rich mouthful, a heavy groan."
"Yiddish","A rich man's foolish sayings pass for wise ones."
"Yiddish","A rich man who is stingy is the worst pauper."
"Yiddish","A rich man has no need of character."
"Yiddish","A quiet fool is half a sage."
"Yiddish","A quarrel is like an itch; the more you scratch, the more it itches."
"Yiddish","A person's worst enemy can't wish on him what he can think up himself."
"Yiddish","A person should want to live, if only out of curiosity."
"Yiddish","A person should stay alive, if only out of curiosity."
"Yiddish","A person should live if only for curiosity's sake."
"Yiddish","A person can study for seventy years and at the end die a fool."
"Yiddish","A wise man hears one word and understands two."
"Yiddish","Better an ounce of happiness than a pound of gold."
"Yiddish","Charge nothing and you'll get a lot of customers."
"Yiddish","Candlemas day, put beans in the clay; put candles and candlesticks away."
"Yiddish","Cancer--schmancer!--as long as you're healthy."
"Yiddish","Ca' me, ca' thee."
"Yiddish","Bygone troubles are good to tell."
"Yiddish","Bygone troubles are a pleasure to talk about."
"Yiddish","By day they're ready to divorce, by night they're ready for bed."
"Yiddish","Borrow causes sorrow."
"Yiddish","Beware of still water, a still dog, and a still enemy."
"Yiddish","Better to hear curses than to be pitied."
"Yiddish","Better to die upright than to live on your knees."
"Yiddish","Better the best of the worst than the worst of the best."
"Yiddish","Anger is like a thorn in the heart."
"Yiddish","Better ask ten times than go astray once."
"Yiddish","Anger is the thorn in the heart."
"Yiddish","Better an honest slap in the face than an insincere kiss."
"Yiddish","Better a thief for a neighbor than an overzealous rabbi."
"Yiddish","Better a slap from a wise man than a kiss from a fool."
"Yiddish","Better a Jew without a beard than a beard without a Jew."
"Yiddish","Being too nice can cost a lot."
"Yiddish","Before you start up a ladder, count the rungs."
"Yiddish","Attractiveness is better than beauty."
"Yiddish","Ask and you won't get lost."
"Yiddish","Ask advice from everyone, but act with your own mind."
"Yiddish","Ask about your neighbors, and then buy the house."
"Yiddish","As we live, so we learn."
"Yiddish","As the sheep are shorn, the lambs shiver."
"Yiddish","A penny is a lot of money--if you haven't got a penny."
"Yiddish","Better ten times ill than one time dead."
"Yiddish","A dead man is mourned seven days;a fool, his lifetime."
"Yiddish","A penny saved is a penny earned, but sometimes a penny is better spent than saved."
"Yiddish","A good friend is often better than a brother."
"Yiddish","A good cry lightens the heart."
"Yiddish","A golden key will open every lock."
"Yiddish","A friend you get for nothing; an enemy must be bought."
"Yiddish","A fool will jump into the bath and forget to wash his face."
"Yiddish","A fool who can keep silent is counted among the wise."
"Yiddish","A fool shows his annoyance at once, but a prudent man overlooks an insult."
"Yiddish","A fool says what he knows, and a wise man knows what he says."
"Yiddish","A fool is his own informer."
"Yiddish","A flatterer must not lose his temper."
"Yiddish","A farmer should not ride the king's horse."
"Yiddish","A good man, but his mad dog won't let you speak to him."
"Yiddish","A deaf man heard how a mute told that a blind man has seen how a cripple walked."
"Yiddish","A good name is better than a precious stone."
"Yiddish","A clock that stands still is better than one that goes wrong."
"Yiddish","A chip on the shoulder indicates wood higher up."
"Yiddish","A chip off the old block."
"Yiddish","A child's tear rends the heavens."
"Yiddish","A cat loves fish, but won't risk its claws."
"Yiddish","A boil is fine as long as it's under someone else's arm."
"Yiddish","A blow passes on, a spoken word lingers on."
"Yiddish","A bird is known by his feathers."
"Yiddish","A big crowd, but not a human being in sight."
"Yiddish","A bad peace is better than a good war."
"Yiddish","For example is not proof."
"Yiddish","If only one race has to be chosen, why the Jews?"
"Yiddish","An angry man is not fit to pray."
"Yiddish","A dog without teeth will also attack a bone."
"Yiddish","A lock is meant only for honest men."
"Yiddish","Better ruined ten times than dead once."
"Yiddish","A penny is a lot of money, if you have not got a penny."
"Yiddish","A nation's treasure is its scholars."
"Yiddish","A meowing cat catches no mice."
"Yiddish","A man's worst enemies can't wish on him what he can think up himself."
"Yiddish","A man too good for the world is no good for his wife."
"Yiddish","A man should stay alive if only out of curiosity."
"Yiddish","A man should live if only to satisfy his curiosity."
"Yiddish","A man should go on living -- if only to satisfy his curiosity."
"Yiddish","A man is not old until his regrets take the place of his dreams."
"Yiddish","A man is not honest simply because he never had a chance to steal."
"Yiddish","A man comes from the dust and in the dust he will end--and in the meantime it is good to drink a sip of vodka."
"Yiddish","A good friend you get for nothing, an enemy you have to buy."
"Yiddish","A man cannot jump over his own shadow."
"Yiddish","A penny is sometimes better spent than spared."
"Yiddish","A lion doesn't fear a fly."
"Yiddish","A lie can take you far away -- but with no hope of return."
"Yiddish","A lazy messenger is not short of excuses."
"Yiddish","A joke driven too far brings home hate."
"Yiddish","A jest is half a truth."
"Yiddish","A hero is someone who can keep his mouth shut when he's right."
"Yiddish","A heavy purse makes a light heart."
"Yiddish","A half-truth is a whole lie."
"Yiddish","A half truth is a whole lie."
"Yiddish","A guest is like rain: when he lingers on, he becomes a nuisance."
"Yiddish","A guest is like rain: when he lingers on, he becomes a nuisance."
"Yiddish","A guest is like rain: when he lingers on, he becomes a nuisance."
"Yiddish","A guest for a day is welcome the whole year."
"Yiddish","A man cannot spin and reel at the same time."
"Yiddish","He that lies on the ground cannot fall."
"Yiddish","Gold's father is dirt, yet it regards itself as noble."
"Yiddish","Hell itself can be no worse than the road that leads to it."
"Yiddish","Hell is not so bad as the road that leads to it."
"Yiddish","Heaven and hell can both be found on earth."
"Yiddish","Health? Very nice! But where will we get potatoes?"
"Yiddish","Health comes before making a livelihood."
"Yiddish","He who would have others pity him must pity others."
"Yiddish","He who stands by his point of view, must be ready to suffer hunger."
"Yiddish","He who runs away from the fire, falls in the water."
"Yiddish","He who puts up with insult invites injury."
"Yiddish","He who marries for money earns it."
"Yiddish","He who has children will never die of starvation."
"Yiddish","Hire staff but do it yourself."
"Yiddish","Better an ounce of luck than a pound of gold."
"Yiddish","Hope for miracles, but don't rely on one."
"Yiddish","Charity covers a multitude of sins."
"Yiddish","He that cannot obey cannot command."
"Yiddish","He that cannot ask cannot live."
"Yiddish","He that can't endure the bad, will not live to see the good."
"Yiddish","He that can not endure the bad will not live to see the good."
"Yiddish","He falsifies who renders a verse just as it looks."
"Yiddish","He avenged himself on fleas, and burned up his bed."
"Yiddish","Happy is she who conducts herself honorably."
"Yiddish","Half-truth -- whole lie."
"Yiddish","Had you gotten up early, you wouldn't have needed to stay up late."
"Yiddish","Good news always comes from far away."
"Yiddish","Golden dreams make men wake hungry."
"Yiddish","Golden dishes will never turn black."
"Yiddish","He who comes for the inheritance is often made to pay for the funeral."
"Yiddish","If each one sweeps before his own door, the whole street is clean."
"Yiddish","If one soldier knew what the other thinks, there would be no war."
"Yiddish","If one link has broken so has the whole chain."
"Yiddish","If one has nothing to answer, it is best to shut up."
"Yiddish","If it were God's will, you could shoot with a broom too."
"Yiddish","If it must always be better, it can never be good enough."
"Yiddish","If it goes, it goes, don't force it."
"Yiddish","If I try to be like him, who will be like me?"
"Yiddish","If I dealt in candles, the sun wouldn't set; if I dealt in shrouds, people would stop dying."
"Yiddish","If I am like others, who will be like me?"
"Yiddish","If God were living on earth, people would break His windows."
"Yiddish","If God wants people to suffer, he sends them too much understanding."
"Yiddish","If God lived on Earth, all his windows would be broken."
"Yiddish","Hell shared with a sage is better than paradise with a fool."
"Yiddish","If everyone were allowed to take from the world all her heart desired, there would be nothing left for anyone else."
"Yiddish","He that cannot pay, let him pray."
"Yiddish","If charity costs nothing, the world would be full of philanthropists."
"Yiddish","If charity cost nothing and benevolence caused no heartache, the world would be full of philanthropists."
"Yiddish","If all pulled in one direction, the world would keel over."
"Yiddish","If a person is fated to drown, he'll lose his life even in a teaspoon of water."
"Yiddish","If a man is destined to drown, he will drown even in a spoonful of water."
"Yiddish","If a link is broken, the whole chain breaks."
"Yiddish","If a link is broken, the entire chain breaks."
"Yiddish","If a Jew cannot be a shoemaker, he will dream of being a professor."
"Yiddish","I can't sing but I am a musicologist."
"Yiddish","I can find good in my boss but he is at loggerheads with me."
"Yiddish","How you run your life, that's how your clock will run."
"Yiddish","How many will listen to the truth when you tell them?"
"Yiddish","Hope may give a man strength, but not sense."
"Yiddish","If Fortune calls, offer him a seat."
"Yiddish","Don't be scared when you have no other choice."
"Yiddish","Every answer can result in a new question."
"Yiddish","Even in heaven, it is not good to be alone."
"Yiddish","Even a ball of wool has a beginning."
"Yiddish","Either it doesn't help or it isn't needed."
"Yiddish","Don't be too sweet lest you be eaten up; don't be too bitter lest you be spewed out."
"Yiddish","Each child brings his own blessing into the world."
"Yiddish","Drive the horse with oats, not with curses and oaths."
"Yiddish","Don't throw away the old bucket until you know whether the new one holds water."
"Yiddish","Don't throw a stone into a well from which you have drunk."
"Yiddish","Don't settle in a place where the doctor has gout."
"Yiddish","Don't live in a town where there are no doctors."
"Yiddish","Don't call a man honest just because he never had the chance to steal."
"Yiddish","Every man knows that he must die, but no one believes it."
"Yiddish","He who can't endure the bad will not live to see the good."
"Yiddish","Eggs may be smarter than the chickens, but it doesn't take long for them to stink."
"Yiddish","Don't bargain with God."
"Yiddish","Don't ask questions about fairy tales."
"Yiddish","Don't approach a goat from the front, a horse from the back or a fool from any side."
"Yiddish","Doctors and gravediggers are partners."
"Yiddish","Do not show a stick to a dog that has been beaten."
"Yiddish","Do good and ask not for whom."
"Yiddish","Death does not knock on the door."
"Yiddish","Dear God: You do such wonderful things for complete strangers; why not for me?"
"Yiddish","Dear God: You do such wonderful things for complete strangers; why not for me?"
"Yiddish","Come for your inheritance and you may have to pay for the funeral."
"Yiddish","Charity excuseth not cheating."
"Yiddish","Charm is more than beauty."
"Yiddish","God will provide. If only God would provide until He provides."
"Yiddish","God could not be everywhere and therefore He made mothers."
"Yiddish","God will provide -- ah, if only He would till He does."
"Yiddish","God sends burdens... and shoulders."
"Yiddish","God made man because he loves stories."
"Yiddish","God loves the poor and helps the rich."
"Yiddish","God is an honest payer, but a very slow one."
"Yiddish","God is a father, happiness is a stepfather."
"Yiddish","God gave burdens, also shoulders."
"Yiddish","Dying while young is a boon in old age."
"Yiddish","God created a world full of little worlds."
"Yiddish","Every poor man has a dry throat and wet boots."
"Yiddish","Go quickly but don't fall off my step."
"Yiddish","Give me, Lord, my daily bread, I will get my own brandy."
"Yiddish","From the black earth there grows the finest grain."
"Yiddish","From success to failure is one step; from failure to success is a long road."
"Yiddish","Experience costs blood."
"Yiddish","Every pot will find its lid."
"Yiddish","God created people because he loves stories."
"Yiddish","Friends are needed both for joy and for sorrow."
"Yiddish","Every worm has its hole."
"Yiddish","Every question has an answer."
"Yiddish","Everything ends in weeping."
"Yiddish","Every seller praises his wares."
"Yiddish","Fear is worse than the ordeal itself."
"Yiddish","Flattery makes friends and truth makes enemies."
"Yiddish","Flattery sits in the parlour when plain dealing is kicked out of doors."
"Yiddish","Flattery will get you nowhere."
"Yiddish","Fleas are not lobsters."
"Yiddish","For example is not the same as proof."
"Yiddish","Everyone is kneaded out of the same dough, but not baked in the same oven."
"Yiddish, Italian","If you can't bite, don't show your teeth."
"Yoruba","What you give you get, ten times over."
"Yoruba","What you give you get, ten times over."
"Yoruba","Those who die through ignorance are many; those who die because they are intelligent are few."
"Yoruba","The young cock crows as he hears the old one."
"Yoruba","The young cannot teach tradition to the old."
"Yoruba","Truth came to market but could not be sold; however, we buy lies with ready cash."
"Yoruba","The pot-lid is always badly off: the pot gets all the sweet, the lid nothing but steam."
"Yoruba","The person who has been a slave from birth does not value rebellion."
"Yoruba","The man who has bread to eat does not appreciate the severity of a famine."
"Yoruba","The hand of the child cannot reach the shelf, nor the hand of the adult get through the neck of the gourd."
"Yoruba","The butterfly that brushes against thorns will tear its wings."
"Yoruba","The bell rings loudest in your own home."
"Yoruba","Silence is an attribute of the dead; he who is alive speaks."
"Yoruba","We must blame the thief first before we say that where the owner put her property improper."
"Yoruba","Rather than an abatement of her viciousness, a witch gives birth to only female children and witchcraft multiplies."
"Yoruba","Stretch your hands as far as they reach, grab all you can grab."
"Yoruba","When your neighbor's horse falls into a pit, you should not rejoice at it, for your own child may fall into it too."
"Yoruba","Patching makes a garment last long."
"Yoruba","You must be willing to die in order to live."
"Yoruba","You cannot shave a man's head in his absence."
"Yoruba","You can't stop a pig from wallowing in the mud."
"Yoruba","Work is the medicine for poverty."
"Yoruba","Words are like spears: Once they leave your lips they can never come back."
"Yoruba","If something that was going to chop off your head only knocked off your cap, you should be grateful."
"Yoruba","Where you will sit when you are old shows where you stood in youth."
"Yoruba","What you give you get, ten times over."
"Yoruba","When you stand with the blessings of your mother and God, it matters not who stands against you."
"Yoruba","When wood breaks it can be repaired, but ivory breaks forever."
"Yoruba","When the white man is about to leave a garden for good, he wrecks it."
"Yoruba","When the rain falls in the valley, the hill gets angry."
"Yoruba","When the door is closed, you must learn to slide across the crack of the sill."
"Yoruba","When hunger gets inside you, nothing else can."
"Yoruba","Words are like spears: Once they leave your lips they can never come back."
"Yoruba","A proverb is the horse that can carry one swiftly to the discovery of ideas."
"Yoruba","Only what you have combated for will last."
"Yoruba","If you damage the character of another, you damage your own."
"Yoruba","'i nearly killed the bird.' no one can eat 'nearly' in a stew."
"Yoruba","A great affair covers up a small matter."
"Yoruba","A man's first wife never complains of neglect from the penis, the first morsel never complains of insufficient sauce."
"Yoruba","A stammerer would eventually say father."
"Yoruba","After we fry the fat, we see what is left."
"Yoruba","Anyone who sees beauty and does not look at it will soon be poor."
"Yoruba","As long as there are lice in the seams of the garment there must be bloodstains on the fingernails."
"Yoruba","As there is guilt in innocence, there is innocence in guilt."
"Yoruba","Ashes always fly back in the face of him who throws them."
"Yoruba","Because friendship is pleasant, we partake of our friend's entertainment; not because we have not enough to eat in our own house."
"Yoruba","Covetousness is the father of unfulfilled desires."
"Yoruba","Diseased genitals must keep to themselves."
"Yoruba","No one can uproot the tree which God has planted."
"Yoruba","A man with a cough cannot conceal himself."
"Yoruba","Fear a silent man. He has lips like a drum."
"Yoruba","One who waits for chance may wait a year."
"Yoruba","One takes care of one's own: when a bachelor roasts yam, he share's it with his sheep."
"Yoruba","Nobody knows the mysteries which lie at the bottom of the ocean."
"Yoruba","Medicine left in the bottle can't help."
"Yoruba","Many words do not fill a basket."
"Yoruba","He who eats well speaks well or it is a question of insanity."
"Yoruba","For no man could be blessed without the acceptance of his own head."
"Yoruba","Gossips always suspect that others are talking about them."
"Yoruba","It takes a whole village to raise a child."
"Yoruba","He who throws a stone in the market will hit his relative."
"Yoruba","If we stand tall it is because we stand on the backs of those who came before us."
"Yoruba","If you don't sell your head, no one will buy it."
"Yoruba","It is a thief that can trace the footsteps of another thief on a rock."
"Yoruban","Anyone who sees beauty and does not look at it will soon be poor."
"Yoruban","Because friendship is pleasant, we partake of our friend's entertainment; not because we have not enough to eat in our own house."
"Yoruban","Fear a silent man. He has lips like a drum."
"Yoruban","Many words do not fill a basket."
"Yoruban","Silence is an attribute of the dead; he who is alive speaks."
"Yoruban","The young cannot teach tradition to the old."
"Yoruban","The young cock crows as he hears the old one."
"Yoruban","Words are like spears: Once they leave your lips they can never come back."
"Yoruban","A great affair covers up a small matter."
"Yoruban","Work is the medicine for poverty."
"Yugoslav","Complain to one who can help you."
"Yugoslav","Complain to one who can help you."
"Yugoslavian","Tell the truth and run."
"Yugoslavian","Tell the truth and shame the Devil."
"Yugoslavian","One ounce of good luck is better than a ton of brains."
"Yugoslavian","If ever you should need my life, come and take it."
"Yugoslavian","Don't guild the lily."
"Yugoslavian","Don't go selling the hide while the bear remains in the hole."
"Yugoslavian","A good rest is half the work."
"Yugoslavian","If envy would burn, there would be no need for wood."
"Yugoslavian","One ounce of good luck is better than a ton of brains."
"Yugoslavian","Wine from a pot is better than water from a well."
"Yugoslavian","It is better to look from the mountain than from the dungeon."
"Yugoslavian","It is not easy to meet Good, but it is easy to recognize it."
"Yugoslavian","Man is harder than rock and more fragile than an egg."
"Yugoslavian","Man is learning all his life and yet he dies in ignorance."
"Yugoslavian","Nine gamblers could not feed a single rooster."
"Yugoslavian","No one likes to be the first to step on the ice."
"Yugoslavian","On your own donkey it is quicker than on someone else's racehorse."
"Yugoslavian","Life is like a game in which God shuffles the cards, the devil deals them and we have to play the trumps."
"Yugoslavian","Patience can break through iron doors."
"Yugoslavian","Tell the truth and shame the Devil."
"Yugoslavian","The place of an uninvited guest is behind the door."
"Yugoslavian","There is little use building a fence around the garden to keep out the rabbits."
"Yugoslavian","What is impossible to change is best to forget."
"Yugoslavian","When the big bells ring, the little bells are not heard."
"Yugoslavian","Where there are no laws, they can't be broken."
"Yugoslavian","Who asks at once for a lot, returns home with an empty bag."
"Yugoslavian","If you wish to know what a man is, place him in authority."
"Yugoslavian","Tell the truth and run."
"Yugoslavian","Where there is no wife, there is no home."
"Yugoslavian","Everyone will sit on a little donkey."
"Yugoslavian","If you spit against the wind, you spit in your own face."
"Yugoslavian","A good rest is half the job."
"Yugoslavian","A good rest is half the work."
"Yugoslavian","A man shows in his youth what he will be in his age."
"Yugoslavian","Boast to a stranger, complain only to your friends."
"Yugoslavian","Complain to the one who can help you."
"Yugoslavian","Condemn a man within earshot; praise him at a distance."
"Yugoslavian","Don't go selling the hide while the bear remains in the hole."
"Yugoslavian","The eyes see everything but themselves."
"Yugoslavian","A good name reaches far but a bad one reaches farther."
"Yugoslavian","Grain by grain, a loaf; stone by stone, a castle."
"Yugoslavian","He is not honest who has burned his tongue and does not tell the company the soup is hot."
"Yugoslavian","He who does not know how to serve cannot know how to command."
"Yugoslavian","He who humbles himself too much gets trampled upon."
"Yugoslavian","He who is late may gnaw the bones."
"Yugoslavian","He who works has much; he who saves, still more."
"Yugoslavian","Hours once lost cannot be regained."
"Yugoslavian","I am scratching myself where I am itching."
"Yugoslavian","If envy would burn, there would be no need for wood."
"Yugoslavian","If ever you should need my life, come and take it."
"Yugoslavian","Don't guild the lily."
"Yurok","When you die, you will be spoken of as those in the sky, like the stars."
"Zaire","War ends nothing."
"Zaire","A single bracelet does not jingle."
"Zaire","War ends nothing."
"Zaire","Wood may remain ten years in the water, but it will never become a crocodile."
"Zaire","Let him speak who has seen with his eyes."
"Zaire","Those who are absent are always wrong."
"Zaire","The friends of our friends are our friends."
"Zambian","One who enters a forest does not listen to the breaking of the twigs in the brush."
"Zambian","Treat the days well and they will treat you well."
"Zambian","Lies have short legs."
"Zambian","Many are the eyes of the person whose spouse commits adultery."
"Zambian","One who enters a forest does not listen to the breaking of the twigs in the brush."
"Zambian","The king lives way up where the stench of the poor cannot reach him."
"Zambian","The shark who has eaten cannot swim with the shark that is hungry."
"Zambian","Things that are stolen will really never make you rich."
"Zambian","To get rid of anger, first weed out the bitter roots."
"Zambian","Your feet will take you away from home, but your stomach will always bring you back."
"Zambian","A woman without teeth shall be left to the lions."
"Zambian","When you run alone, you run fast. When you run together, you run far."
"Zambian","When you show the moon to a child, it sees only your finger."
"Zambian","When your luck deserts you, even cold food burns."
"Zambian","Where God cooks, there is no smoke."
"Zambian","You can trust your brother, your father, your mother, but never your wife."
"Zambian","You have to look after wealth, but knowledge looks after you."
"Zambian","You learn a lot about a man by his behavior when hungry."
"Zambian","Jump over a log but not over your neighbor's word."
"Zambian","To give is to put."
"Zambian","A riddle made by God has no solution."
"Zambian","A belching toad portends rain."
"Zambian","A fat woman warms even the coldest the night."
"Zambian","Beat your wife regularly; if you don't know why, she will."
"Zambian","A monkey that pilfers from a widow's larder must not be admonished."
"Zambian","It is inevitable that two thighs will rub against each other."
"Zambian","A strong bull is seen by it's scars."
"Zambian","A tender bamboo cannot be eagerly desired for building."
"Zambian","A wild dog is best eaten when clubbed to death."
"Zambian","Do not look at a visitor's face but at his stomach."
"Zambian","He who has a fever is not shown to the fire."
"Zambian","He who listened to the woman suffered famine at harvest time."
"Zambian","He who paddles two canoes, sinks."
"Zambian","I am because we are; we are because I am."
"Zambian","If you are ugly, learn how to dance."
"Zambian","If you have no teeth, do not break the clay cooking pot."
"Zambian","It is better to walk than curse the road."
"Zambian","An old poacher makes the best gamekeeper."
"Zambian","A man with a cross eye shall be put to the torch."
"Zanzibar","The bigger the pot the more rice will stick to it."
"Zanzibar","The bucket goes down the well every day -- some day it won't come up again."
"Zanzibar","The death throes of an elephant are not so annoying as a living flea."
"Zanzibar","There is reason in the roasting of eggs."
"Zanzibar","Women and glass are always in danger."
"Zanzibar","Time is longer than a rope."
"Zanzibar","A man without a wife is a man without a house."
"Zanzibar","Unless you know the road you've come down, you can not know where you are going."
"Zanzibar","Willing is a good man, but Able is a better one."
"Zanzibar","When you play the flute in Zanzibar all Africa dances."
"Zanzibar","A baby that does not cry will die on its mother's back."
"Zanzibar","Foam will always find its way to the shore."
"Zanzibar","A fruit tree that grows in a dung heap will certainly blossom."
"Zanzibar","A gentle breeze blowing in the right direction is better than a pair of strong oars."
"Zanzibar","An empty sack can't stand up; a full sack cannot bend."
"Zanzibar","If you think your bundle of dirty clothes is too heavy, try picking up your neighbor's."
"Zanzibar","Maybe my canoe is bigger than yours, but the sea is the same. If there are no fish, we both go hungry."
"Zanzibar","Never pick up what you didn't put down."
"Zanzibar","No matter how fast moonlight runs, daylight catches up."
"Zen","Better to struggle with a sick jackass than carry the wood by yourself."
"Zen","The infinite is in the finite of every instant."
"Zen","Sitting quietly, doing nothing, spring comes, and the grass grows by itself."
"Zen","Only when you can be extremely pliable and soft can you be extremely hard and strong."
"Zen","Chop wood, carry water."
"Zen","Better to sit all night than to go to bed with a dragon."
"Zen","Better to see the face than to hear the name."
"Zen","Be master of mind rather than mastered by mind."
"Zen","From the withered tree, a flower blooms."
"Zen","When you try to stay on the surface of the water, you sink; but when you try to sink, you float."
"Zen","The infinite is in the finite of every instant."
"Zen","One day a student asked Taiga, ""What is the most difficult part of painting?"" Taiga answered, ""The part of the paper where nothing is painted is the most difficult."""
"Zen","Only when you can be extremely pliable and soft can you be extremely hard and strong."
"Zen","Sit, walk, or run, but don't wobble."
"Zen","Sitting quietly, doing nothing, spring comes, and the grass grows by itself."
"Zen","The best leaders of all, the people know not they exist. They turn to each other and say We did it ourselves."
"Zen","The tighter you squeeze, the less you have."
"Zen","To follow the path, look to the master, follow the master, walk with the master, see through the master, become the master."
"Zen","To know and not do is not yet to know."
"Zen","No snowflake ever falls in the wrong place."
"Zen","When you reach the top, keep climbing."
"Zen","The Great Way is not difficult for those who have no preferences."
"Zen","When the pupil is ready to learn, a teacher will appear."
"Zen","Better to struggle with a sick jackass than carry the wood by yourself."
"Zen","The obstacle is the path."
"Zen","Let go over a cliff, die completely, and then come back to life -- after that you cannot be deceived."
"Zen","A beautiful woman who is pleasing to men is good only for frightening fish when she falls into the water."
"Zen","Be master of mind rather than mastered by mind."
"Zen","Better to sit all night than to go to bed with a dragon."
"Zen","Chop wood, carry water."
"Zen","Do not seek the truth, only cease to cherish your opinions."
"Zen","It takes a wise man to learn from his mistakes, but an even wiser man to learn from others."
"Zen","Learning Zen is a phenomenon of gold and dung. Before you understand it, it's like gold; after you understand it, it's like dung."
"Zen","Better to see the face than to hear the name."
"Zen","Knock on the sky and Listen to the sound."
"Zen","From the withered tree, a flower blooms."
"Zen","In studying the way, realizing it is hard; once you have realized it, preserving it is hard. When you can preserve it, putting it into practice is hard."
"Zen","If you want a certain thing, you must first be a certain person. Once you are that certain person, obtaining that certain thing will no longer be a concern of yours."
"Zen","If you understand, things are just as they are; if you do not understand, things are just as they are."
"Zimbabwean","A coward has no scar."
"Zimbabwean","An elephant's tusks are never too heavy for it."
"Zimbabwean","We will be grateful to flowers only if they have born fruits."
"Zimbabwean","The forest provides food to the hunter after they are exhaustingly tired."
"Zimbabwean","Whoever plows with a team of donkeys must have patience."
"Zimbabwean","You must die for your own sacred conviction."
"Zimbabwean","In the world of books, the mind-set of the reader is of great importance."
"Zimbabwean","If you can walk you can dance, if you can talk you can sing."
"Zimbabwean","Ones neighbours problems, does not induce one to lose their appetite over them."
"Zimbabwean","Passion is of greater consequence than facts."
"Zimbabwean","People who do not mend things first will never produce something."
"Zimbabwean","Proverbs can be applied to get what you want."
"Zimbabwean","Strength is like milk - it is inexhaustible."
"Zimbabwean","If your mouth were a knife, it would cut off your lips."
"Zimbabwean","The monkey does not see his own hind backside; he sees his neighbor's."
"Zimbabwean","The more help in the cornfield the smaller the harvest."
"Zimbabwean","The old man gives the best advice."
"Zimbabwean","Those who eat alone, die alone."
"Zimbabwean","Two experts never agree."
"Zimbabwean","Two rats cannot share the same hole."
"Zimbabwean","We will be grateful to flowers only if they have born fruits."
"Zimbabwean","You are the game while the games lasts."
"Zimbabwean","You can not tell a hungry child that you gave him food yesterday."
"Zimbabwean","If you can envision it, You can accomplish it. If you can imagine it, You can reach the heavens."
"Zimbabwean","Everyone carries around his own witches."
"Zimbabwean","Until the lion tells his side of the story, the tale of the hunt will always glorify the hunter."
"Zimbabwean","A bull is not known in two herds."
"Zimbabwean","God is good, but never dance with a lion."
"Zimbabwean","If words fail no others will avail."
"Zimbabwean","An elephant's tasks are never too heavy for it."
"Zimbabwean","A borrowed fiddle does not finish a tune."
"Zimbabwean","A careful hyena lives a long time."
"Zimbabwean","A coward has no scar."
"Zimbabwean","A grilled locust is better than no soup."
"Zimbabwean","A ripened fruit does not cling to the vine."
"Zimbabwean","A weaning baby that does not cry aloud, will die on its mothers back."
"Zimbabwean","A wise mans ink lasts until only the stupid remain."
"Zimbabwean","Every woman beautiful till she speaks."
"Zimbabwean","An elephant's tusks are never too heavy for it."
"Zimbabwean","Annoy your doctor and sickness comes in laughing."
"Zimbabwean","Between true friends even water drunk together is sweet enough."
"Zimbabwean","Blood is the sweat of heroes."
"Zimbabwean","Dance in the sun, but turn your back to the clouds."
"Zimbabwean","Don't throw out the old pot until you have the tinker makes a new one."
"Zimbabwean","If God gives you leprosy, look to your own past misdeeds."
"Zimbabwean","Every elephant has to carry its own trunk around."
"Zimbabwean","Gifts is the key to the female heart."
"Zimbabwean","It is the soil that knows that the mouse's baby is ill."
"Zimbabwean","A woman is attractive when she is somebody else's wife."
"Zulu","Lomhlaba Unzima, Lohmhlaba. [This world is a harsh place, this world.]"
"Zulu","Old age does not announce itself."
"Zulu","Abundance does not spread; famine does."
"Zulu","Almost is not eaten."
"Zulu","No stake ever grew old with the bark on."
"Zulu","The house of the loud talker leaks."
"Zulu","The horse that arrives early gets good drinking water."
"Zulu","Plenty sits still, Hunger is a wanderer."
"Zulu","The most beautiful fig may contain a worm."
"Zulu","No stake ever grew old with the bark on."
"Zulu","You arrive Mr. Big Shot but leave Mr. Nobody."
"Zulu","No dew ever competed with the sun."
"Zulu","Old age does not announce itself."
"Zulu","The rich are always complaining."
"Zulu","This world is a harsh place, this world."
"Zulu","Without life there is nothing."
"Zulu","You can't eat ""almost."" Even an ant can hurt an elephant."
"Zulu","You cannot cross a river without getting wet."
"Zulu","He who hates, hates himself."
"Zulu","Almost is not eaten."
"Zulu","When the man is away, the monkey eats his corn and goes into his hut."
"Zulu","Death has no modesty."
"Zulu","Do not call to a dog with a whip in your hand."
"Zulu","A fault confessed is half redressed."
"Zulu","A half loaf is better than no bread."
"Zulu","A horse has four legs, yet it often falls."
"Zulu","Abundance does not spread; famine does."
"Zulu","Blessed are those who can please themselves."
"Zulu","Copying everybody else all the time, the monkey one day cut his throat."
"Zulu","Darkness conceals the hippopotamus."
"Zulu","Follow the customs or flee the country."
"Zulu","Do not call to a dog with a whip in your hand."
"Zulu","Do not leave your host's house throwing mud in his well."
"Zulu","Do not speak of a rhinoceros if there is no tree nearby."
"Zulu","Do not talk about a rhinoceros if there is no tree nearby."
"Zulu","Every course of water has its source."
"Zulu","Every stream has its source."
"Zulu","Copying everyone else all the time, the monkey one day cut his throat."
